# Your first function
Take a look at the snippet in the editor.
```py
print("Enter a value: ")
a = int(input())

print("Enter a value: ")
b = int(input())

print("Enter a value: ")
c = int(input())
```
It's rather simple, but we only want it to be an example of `transforming a repeating part of a code into a function`.

The messages sent to the console by the `print()` function are always the same. Of course, there's nothing really bad in such a code, but try to imagine what you would have to do if your boss asked you to change the message to make it more polite, e.g., to start it with the phrase `"Please,"`.

It seems that you'd have to spend some time changing all the occurrences of the message (you'd use a clipboard, of course, but it wouldn't make your life much easier). It's obvious that you'd probably make some mistakes during the amendment process, and you (and your boss) would get a bit frustrated.

Is it possible to separate such a repeatable part of the code, name it and make it reusable? It would mean that a `change made once in one place would be propagated to all the places where it's used`.

Of course, such a code should work only when it's explicitly launched.

Yes, it's possible. This is exactly what functions are for.

============================================================================================
# Your first function
How do you make such a function?

You need to `define` it. The word define is significant here.

This is what the simplest function definition looks like:
```py
def function_name():
    function_body
```

  - It always starts with the `keyword def` (for define)
  - next after `def` goes the `name of the function` (the rules for naming functions are exactly the same as for naming variables)
  - after the function name, there's a place for a pair of `parentheses` (they contain nothing here, but that will change soon)
  - the line has to be ended with a `colon`;
  - the line directly after `def` begins the `function body` - a couple (at least one) of necessarily `nested instructions`, which will be executed every time the function is invoked; note: the `function ends where the nesting ends`, so you have to be careful.

We're ready to define our `prompting` function. We'll name it `message` - here it is:
```py
def message():
    print("Enter a value: ")
```

The function is extremely simple, but fully `usable`. We've named it `message`, but you can label it according to your taste. Let's use it.


Our code contains the function definition now:
```py
def message():
    print("Enter a value: ")

print("We start here.")
print("We end here.")
```

Note: we don't use the function at all - there's no invocation of it inside the code.

When you run it, you see the following output:
```s
We start here.
We end here.
```


This means that Python reads the function's definitions and remembers them, but won't launch any of them without your permission.

We've modified the code now - we've inserted the `function's invocation` between the start and end messages:
```py
def message():
    print("Enter a value: ")

print("We start here.")
message()
print("We end here.")
```

The output looks different now:
```s
We start here.
Enter a value: 
We end here.
```

Test the code, modify it, experiment with it.

