# Sequence types and mutability
Before we start talking about `tuples` and `dictionaries`, we have to introduce two important concepts: `sequence types` and `mutability`.

A `sequence type is a type of data in Python which is able to store more than one value (or less than one, as a sequence may be empty), and these values can be sequentially (hence the name) browsed`, element by element.

As the `for` loop is a tool especially designed to iterate through sequences, we can express the definition as: `a sequence is data which can be scanned by the for loop`.

You've encountered one Python sequence so far - the list. The list is a classic example of a Python sequence, although there are some other sequences worth mentioning, and we're going to present them to you now.


The second notion - `mutability` - is a property of any of Python's data that describes its readiness to be freely changed during program execution. There are two kinds of Python data: `mutable` and `immutable`.

`Mutable data can be freely updated at any time` - we call such an operation in situ.

In situ is a Latin phrase that translates as literally in position. For example, the following instruction modifies the data in situ:
```py
list.append(1)
```

## Immutable data cannot be modified in this way.

Imagine that a list can only be assigned and read over. You would be able neither to append an element to it, nor remove any element from it. This means that appending an element to the end of the list would require the recreation of the list from scratch.

You would have to build a completely new list, consisting of the all elements of the already existing list, plus the new element.

The data type we want to tell you about now is a `tuple`. `A tuple is an immutable sequence type`. It can behave like a list, but it mustn't be modified in situ.
