# What is a tuple?
The first and the clearest distinction between lists and tuples is the syntax used to create them - `tuples prefer to use parenthesis`, whereas lists like to see brackets, although it's also `possible to create a tuple just from a set of values separated by commas`.

Look at the example:
```py
tuple_1 = (1, 2, 4, 8)
tuple_2 = 1., .5, .25, .125
```

There are two tuples, both containing `four elements`.

Let's print them:
```py
tuple_1 = (1, 2, 4, 8)
tuple_2 = 1., .5, .25, .125

print(tuple_1)
print(tuple_2)
```

This is what you should see in the console:
```s
(1, 2, 4, 8)
(1.0, 0.5, 0.25, 0.125)
```
output


Note: `each tuple element may be of a different type` (floating-point, integer, or any other not-as-yet-introduced kind of data).

# How to create a tuple?
It is possible to create an empty tuple - parentheses are required then:
```py
empty_tuple = ()
```

If you want to create a `one-element tuple`, you have to take into consideration the fact that, due to syntax reasons (a tuple has to be distinguishable from an ordinary, single value), you must end the value with a comma:
```py
one_element_tuple_1 = (1, )
one_element_tuple_2 = 1.,
```

Removing the commas won't spoil the program in any syntactical sense, but you will instead get two single variables, not tuples.

==================================================================================
# How to use a tuple?
If you want to get the elements of a tuple in order to read them over, you can use the same conventions to which you're accustomed while using lists.

Take a look at the code in the editor.
```py
my_tuple = (1, 10, 100, 1000)

print(my_tuple[0])
print(my_tuple[-1])
print(my_tuple[1:])
print(my_tuple[:-2])

for elem in my_tuple:
    print(elem)
```
The program should produce the following output - run it and check:
```s
1
1000
(10, 100, 1000)
(1, 10)
1
10
100
1000
```
output


The similarities may be misleading - `don't try to modify a tuple's contents!` It's not a list!

All of these instructions (except the topmost one) will cause a runtime error:
```py
# my_tuple = (1, 10, 100, 1000)

my_tuple.append(10000)
del my_tuple[0]
my_tuple[1] = -10
```

This is the message that Python will give you in the console window:
```s
AttributeError: 'tuple' object has no attribute 'append'
```
output

==================================================================================
# How to use a tuple: continued
What else can tuples do for you?

  - the `len()` function accepts tuples, and returns the number of elements contained inside;
  - the `+` operator can join tuples together (we've shown you this already)
  - the `*` operator can multiply tuples, just like lists;
  - the `in` and `not in` operators work in the same way as in lists.

The snippet in the editor presents them all.
```py
my_tuple = (1, 10, 100)

t1 = my_tuple + (1000, 10000)
t2 = my_tuple * 3

print(len(t2))
print(t1)
print(t2)
print(10 in my_tuple)
print(-10 not in my_tuple)
```
The output should look as follows:
```s
9
(1, 10, 100, 1000, 10000)
(1, 10, 100, 1, 10, 100, 1, 10, 100)
True
True
```
output


One of the most useful tuple properties is their ability to `appear on the left side of the assignment operator`. You saw this phenomenon some time ago, when it was necessary to find an elegant tool to swap two variables' values.

Take a look at the snippet below:
```py
var = 123

t1 = (1, )
t2 = (2, )
t3 = (3, var)

t1, t2, t3 = t2, t3, t1

print(t1, t2, t3)
```

It shows three tuples interacting - in effect, the values stored in them "circulate" - `t1` becomes `t2`, `t2` becomes `t3`, and `t3` becomes `t1`.

Note: the example presents one more important fact: a `tuple's elements can be variables`, not only literals. Moreover, they can be expressions if they're on the right side of the assignment operator.

