# Key takeaways

1. A `function` is a block of code that performs a specific task when the function is called (invoked). You can use functions to make your code reusable, better organized, and more readable. Functions can have parameters and return values.

2. There are at least four basic types of functions in Python:

  - `built-in functions` which are an integral part of Python (such as the `print()` function). You can see a complete list of Python built-in functions at `https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html`.
  - the ones that come from `pre-installed modules` (you'll learn about them in the Python Essentials 2 course)
  - `user-defined functions` which are written by users for users - you can write your own functions and use them freely in your code,
  - the `lambda` functions (you'll learn about them in the Python Essentials 2 course.)

3. You can define your own function using the `def` keyword and the following syntax:
```py
def your_function(optional parameters):
    # the body of the function
```

You can define a function which doesn't take any arguments, e.g.:
```py
def message():    # defining a function
    print("Hello")    # body of the function

message()    # calling the function
```

You can define a function which takes arguments, too, just like the one-parameter function below:
```py
def hello(name):    # defining a function
    print("Hello,", name)    # body of the function

name = input("Enter your name: ")

hello(name)    # calling the function
```

We'll tell you more about parametrized functions in the next section. Don't worry.

## Exercise 1
The `input()` function is an example of a:

a) user-defined function
b) built-in function

A: b - it's a built-in function

## Exercise 2
What happens when you try to invoke a function before you define it? Example:
```py
hi()

def hi():
    print("hi!")
```

A: An exception is thrown (the `NameError` exception to be more precise)

## Exercise 3
What will happen when you run the code below?
```py
def hi():
    print("hi")

hi(5)
```

A: An exception will be thrown (the `TypeError` exception to be more precise) - the `hi()` function doesn't take any arguments
