# The while loop and the else branch
Both loops, `while` and `for`, have one interesting (and rarely used) feature.

We'll show you how it works - try to judge for yourself if it's usable and whether you can live without it or not.

In other words, try to convince yourself if the feature is valuable and useful, or is just syntactic sugar.

Take a look at the snippet in the editor. There's something strange at the end - the `else` keyword.

As you may have suspected, `loops may have the else branch too, like ifs`.

The loop's `else` branch is `always executed once, regardless of whether the loop has entered its body or not`.

Can you guess the output? Run the program to check if you were right.

Modify the snippet a bit so that the loop has no chance to execute its body even once:
```py
i = 5
while i < 5:
    print(i)
    i += 1
else:
    print("else:", i)
```

The `while`'s condition is `False` at the beginning - can you see it?

Run and test the program, and check whether the `else` branch has been executed or not.

=======================================================================================
# The for loop and the else branch
`for` loops behave a bit differently - take a look at the snippet in the editor and run it.

The output may be a bit surprising.

The `i` variable retains its last value.


Modify the code a bit to carry out one more experiment.
```py
i = 111
for i in range(2, 1):
    print(i)
else:
    print("else:", i)
```

Can you guess the output?

The loop's body won't be executed here at all. Note: we've assigned the i variable before the loop.

Run the program and check its output.
```py
for i in range(5):
    print(i)
else:
    print("else:", i)
```
When the loop's body isn't executed, the control variable retains the value it had before the loop.

Note: `if the control variable doesn't exist before the loop starts, it won't exist when the execution reaches the else branch`.

How do you feel about this variant of `else`?


Now we're going to tell you about some other kinds of variables. Our current variables can only `store one value at a time`, but there are variables that can do much more - they can `store as many values as you want`.

