# Why do we need lists?
It may happen that you have to read, store, process, and finally, print dozens, maybe hundreds, perhaps even thousands of numbers. What then? Do you need to create a separate variable for each value? Will you have to spend long hours writing statements like the one below?
```py
var1 = int(input())
var2 = int(input())
var3 = int(input())
var4 = int(input())
var5 = int(input())
var6 = int(input())
:
:
```

If you don't think that this is a complicated task, then take a piece of paper and write a program that:

  - reads five numbers,
  - prints them in order from the smallest to the largest (NB, this kind of processing is called `sorting`).

You should find that you don't even have enough paper to complete the task.

So far, you've learned how to declare variables that are able to store exactly one given value at a time. Such variables are sometimes called `scalars` by analogy with mathematics. All the variables you've used so far are actually scalars.

Think of how convenient it would be to declare a variable that could `store more than one value`. For example, a hundred, or a thousand or even ten thousand. It would still be one and the same variable, but very wide and capacious. Sounds appealing? Perhaps, but how would it handle such a container full of different values? How would it choose just the one you need?

What if you could just number them? And then say: give me the value number 2; assign the value number 15; increase the value number 10000.

We'll show you how to declare such `multi-value variables`. We'll do this with the example we just suggested. We'll write a `program that sorts a sequence of numbers`. We won't be particularly ambitious - we'll assume that there are exactly five numbers.

Let's create a variable called `numbers`; it's assigned with not just one number, but is filled with a list consisting of five values (note: the `list starts with an open square bracket and ends with a closed square bracket`; the space between the brackets is filled with five numbers separated by commas).
```py
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
```

Let's say the same thing using adequate terminology: `numbers is a list consisting of five values, all of them numbers`. We can also say that this statement creates a list of length equal to five (as in there are five elements inside it).

The elements inside a list `may have different types`. Some of them may be integers, others floats, and yet others may be lists.

Python has adopted a convention stating that the elements in a list are `always numbered starting from zero`. This means that the item stored at the beginning of the list will have the number zero. Since there are five elements in our list, the last of them is assigned the number four. Don't forget this.

You'll soon get used to it, and it'll become second nature.

Before we go any further in our discussion, we have to state the following: our `list is a collection of elements, but each element is a scalar`.

==============================================================================================
# Indexing lists
How do you change the value of a chosen element in the list?
```py
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("List content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.
```
Output
```
List content: [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
```
Let's `assign a new value of 111 to the first element` in the list. We do it this way:
```py
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("Original list content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.

numbers[0] = 111
print("New list content: ", numbers)  # Current list content.
```

And now we want `the value of the fifth element to be copied to the second element` - can you guess how to do it?
```py
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("Original list content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.

numbers[0] = 111
print("\nPrevious list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

numbers[1] = numbers[4]  # Copying value of the fifth element to the second.
print("New list content:", numbers)  # Printing current list content.
```

The value inside the brackets which selects one element of the list is called an `index`, while the operation of selecting an element from the list is known as `indexing`.

We're going to use the `print()` function to print the list content each time we make the changes. This will help us follow each step more carefully and see what's going on after a particular list modification.

Note: all the indices used so far are literals. Their values are fixed at runtime, but `any expression can be the index`, too. This opens up lots of possibilities.

==============================================================================================
# Accessing list content
Each of the list's elements may be accessed separately. For example, it can be printed:
```py
print(numbers[0]) # Accessing the list's first element.
```

Assuming that all of the previous operations have been completed successfully, the snippet will send `111` to the console.

As you can see in the editor, the list may also be printed as a whole - just like here:
```py
print(numbers)  # Printing the whole list.
```

As you've probably noticed before, Python decorates the output in a way that suggests that all the presented values form a list. The output from the example snippet above looks like this:
```
[111, 1, 7, 2, 1]
```

# The len() function
The `length of a list` may vary during execution. New elements may be added to the list, while others may be removed from it. This means that the list is a very dynamic entity.

If you want to check the list's current length, you can use a function named `len()` (its name comes from length).

The function takes the `list's name as an argument, and returns the number of elements currently stored` inside the list (in other words - the list's length).

Look at the last line of code in the editor, run the program and check what value it will print to the console. Can you guess?
```py
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("Original list content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.

numbers[0] = 111
print("\nPrevious list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

numbers[1] = numbers[4]  # Copying value of the fifth element to the second.
print("Previous list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

print("\nList length:", len(numbers))  # Printing the list's length.
```
```s
Original list content: [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]

Previous list content: [111, 5, 7, 2, 1]
Previous list content: [111, 1, 7, 2, 1]

List length: 5
```

==============================================================================================
# Removing elements from a list
Any of the list's elements may be `removed` at any time - this is done with an instruction named `del` (delete). Note: it's an `instruction`, not a function.

You have to point to the element to be removed - it'll vanish from the list, and the list's length will be reduced by one.

Look at the snippet below. Can you guess what output it will produce? Run the program in the editor and check.
```py
del numbers[1]
print(len(numbers))
print(numbers)
```

`You can't access an element which doesn't exist` - you can neither get its value nor assign it a value. Both of these instructions will cause runtime errors now:
```s
print(numbers[4])
numbers[4] = 1
```

Add the snippet above after the last line of code in the editor, run the program and check what happens.
```py
numbers = [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]
print("Original list content:", numbers)  # Printing original list content.

numbers[0] = 111
print("\nPrevious list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

numbers[1] = numbers[4]  # Copying value of the fifth element to the second.
print("Previous list content:", numbers)  # Printing previous list content.

print("\nList's length:", len(numbers))  # Printing previous list length.

###

del numbers[1]  # Removing the second element from the list.
print("New list's length:", len(numbers))  # Printing new list length.
print("\nNew list content:", numbers)  # Printing current list content.

###
```
Note: we've removed one of the list's elements - there are only four elements in the list now. This means that element number four doesn't exist.
```s
Original list content: [10, 5, 7, 2, 1]

Previous list content: [111, 5, 7, 2, 1]
Previous list content: [111, 1, 7, 2, 1]

List's length: 5
New list's length: 4

New list content: [111, 7, 2, 1]
```

==============================================================================================
# Negative indices are legal
It may look strange, but negative indices are legal, and can be very useful.

An element with an index equal to `-1 is the last one in the list`.
```py
print(numbers[-1])
```

The example snippet will output `1`. Run the program and check.

Similarly, the element with an index equal to -2 is the one before last in the list.
```py
print(numbers[-2])
```

The example snippet will output `2`.
```py
numbers = [111, 7, 2, 1]
print(numbers[-1])
print(numbers[-2])
```

The last accessible element in our list is `numbers[-4]` (the first one) - don't try to go any further!

