# Functions vs. methods
`A method is a specific kind of function` - it behaves like a function and looks like a function, but differs in the way in which it acts, and in its invocation style.

`A function doesn't belong to any data` - it gets data, it may create new data and it (generally) produces a result.

A method does all these things, but is also able to `change the state of a selected entity`.

`A method is owned by the data it works for, while a function is owned by the whole code`.

This also means that invoking a method requires some specification of the data from which the method is invoked.

It may sound puzzling here, but we'll deal with it in depth when we delve into object-oriented programming.

In general, a typical function invocation may look like this:
```py
result = function(arg)
```

The function takes an argument, does something, and returns a result.

A typical method invocation usually looks like this:
```py
result = data.method(arg)
```

Note: the name of the method is preceded by the name of the data which owns the method. Next, you add a dot, followed by the `method name`, and a pair of `parenthesis enclosing the arguments`.

The method will behave like a function, but can do something more - it can `change the internal state of the data` from which it has been invoked.

You may ask: why are we talking about methods, not about lists?

This is an essential issue right now, as we're going to show you how to add new elements to an existing list. This can be done with methods owned by all the lists, not by functions.

=================================================================================
# Adding elements to a list: append() and insert()

A new element may be glued to the end of the existing list:
```py
list.append(value)
```

Such an operation is performed by a method named `append()`. It takes its argument's value and puts it `at the end of the list` which owns the method.

The list's length then increases by one.

The insert() method is a bit smarter - it can add a new element at any place in the list, not only at the end.
```py
list.insert(location, value)
```

It takes two arguments:

  - the first shows the required location of the element to be inserted; note: all the existing elements that occupy locations to the right of the new element (including the one at the indicated position) are shifted to the right, in order to make space for the new element;
  - the second is the element to be inserted.

Look at the code in the editor. See how we use the `append()` and `insert()` methods. Pay attention to what happens after using `insert()`: the former first element is now the second, the second the third, and so on.
Add the following snippet after the last line of code in the editor:
```py
numbers.insert(1, 333)
```

Print the final list content to the screen and see what happens. The snippet above snippet inserts `333` into the list, making it the second element. The former second element becomes the third, the third the fourth, and so on.
```py
numbers = [111, 7, 2, 1]
print(len(numbers))
print(numbers)

###

numbers.append(4)

print(len(numbers))
print(numbers)

###

numbers.insert(0, 222)
print(len(numbers))
print(numbers)

#
```

=================================================================================
# Adding elements to a list: continued
You can `start a list's life by making it empty` (this is done with an empty pair of square brackets) and then adding new elements to it as needed.

Take a look at the snippet in the editor. Try to guess its output after the `for` loop execution. Run the program to check if you were right.

It'll be a sequence of consecutive integer numbers from `1` (you then add one to all the appended values) to `5`.

We've modified the snippet a bit:
```py
my_list = []  # Creating an empty list.

for i in range(5):
    my_list.insert(0, i + 1)

print(my_list)
```

what will happen now? Run the program and check if this time you were right, too.
```py
my_list = []  # Creating an empty list.

for i in range(5):
    my_list.append(i + 1)

print(my_list)
```

You should get the same sequence, but in `reverse order` (this is the merit of using the `insert()` method).

=================================================================================
# Making use of lists
The `for` loop has a very special variant that can `process lists` very effectively - let's take a look at that.

Let's assume that you want to `calculate the sum of all the values stored in the my_list list`.

You need a variable whose sum will be stored and initially assigned a value of `0` - its name will be `total`. (Note: we're not going to name it sum as Python uses the same name for one of its built-in functions - `sum()`. `Using the same name would generally be considered a bad practice`.) Then you add to it all the elements of the list using the `for` loop. Take a look at the snippet in the editor.

Let's comment on this example:

  - the list is assigned a sequence of five integer values;
  - the `i` variable takes the values `0`, `1`, `2`, `3`, and `4`, and then it indexes the list, selecting the subsequent elements: the first, second, third, fourth and fifth;
  - each of these elements is added together by the `+=` operator to the `total` variable, giving the final result at the end of the loop;
  - note the way in which the `len()` function has been employed - it makes the code independent of any possible changes in the list's content.

# The second face of the for loop
But the `for` loop can do much more. It can hide all the actions connected to the list's indexing, and deliver all the list's elements in a handy way.

This modified snippet shows how it works:
```py
my_list = [10, 1, 8, 3, 5]
total = 0

for i in my_list:
    total += i

print(total)
```

What happens here?

  - the `for` instruction specifies the variable used to browse the list (`i` here) followed by the `in` keyword and the name of the list being processed (`my_list` here)
  - the `i` variable is assigned the values of all the subsequent list's elements, and the process occurs as many times as there are elements in the list;
  - this means that you use the `i` variable as a copy of the elements' values, and you don't need to use indices;
  - the `len()` function is not needed here, either.

```py
my_list = [10, 1, 8, 3, 5]
total = 0

for i in range(len(my_list)):
    total += my_list[i]

print(total)
```

=================================================================================
# Lists in action
Let's leave lists aside for a short moment and look at one intriguing issue.

Imagine that you need to rearrange the elements of a list, i.e., reverse the order of the elements: the first and the fifth as well as the second and fourth elements will be swapped. The third one will remain untouched.


Question: how can you swap the values of two variables?

Take a look at the snippet:
```py
variable_1 = 1
variable_2 = 2

variable_2 = variable_1
variable_1 = variable_2
```

If you do something like this, you would `lose the value previously stored` in `variable_2`. Changing the order of the assignments will not help. You need a `third variable that serves as an auxiliary storage`.

This is how you can do it:
```py
variable_1 = 1
variable_2 = 2

auxiliary = variable_1
variable_1 = variable_2
variable_2 = auxiliary
```

Python offers a more convenient way of doing the swap - take a look:
```py
variable_1 = 1
variable_2 = 2

variable_1, variable_2 = variable_2, variable_1
```

Clear, effective and elegant - isn't it?

=================================================================================
# Lists in action
Now you can easily `swap` the list's elements to `reverse their order`:
```py
my_list = [10, 1, 8, 3, 5]

my_list[0], my_list[4] = my_list[4], my_list[0]
my_list[1], my_list[3] = my_list[3], my_list[1]

print(my_list)
```

Run the snippet. Its output should look like this:
```
[5, 3, 8, 1, 10]
```
output


It looks fine with five elements.


Will it still be acceptable with a list containing 100 elements? No, it won't.

Can you use the `for` loop to do the same thing automatically, irrespective of the list's length? Yes, you can.

This is how we've done it:
```py
my_list = [10, 1, 8, 3, 5]
length = len(my_list)

for i in range(length // 2):
    my_list[i], my_list[length - i - 1] = my_list[length - i - 1], my_list[i]

print(my_list)
```

Note:

  - we've assigned the `length` variable with the current list's length (this makes our code a bit clearer and shorter)
  - we've launched the `for` loop to run through its body `length // 2` times (this works well for lists with both even and odd lengths, because when the list contains an odd number of elements, the middle one remains untouched)
  - we've swapped the ith element (from the beginning of the list) with the one with an index equal to `(length - i - 1)` (from the end of the list); in our example, for `i` equal to `0` the `(lenght - i - 1)` gives `4`; for `i` equal to `1`, it gives `3` - this is exactly what we needed.
  
Lists are extremely useful, and you'll encounter them very often.