# LAB
## Estimated time
10-15 minutes

## Level of difficulty
Easy

## Objectives
Familiarize the student with:

  - creating and modifying simple lists;
  - using methods to modify lists.

## Scenario
The Beatles were one of the most popular music group of the 1960s, and the best-selling band in history. Some people consider them to be the most influential act of the rock era. Indeed, they were included in Time magazine's compilation of the 20th Century's 100 most influential people.

The band underwent many line-up changes, culminating in 1962 with the line-up of John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, and Richard Starkey (better known as Ringo Starr).
```py
# step 1
print("Step 1:", beatles)

# step 2
print("Step 2:", beatles)

# step 3
print("Step 3:", beatles)

# step 4
print("Step 4:", beatles)

# step 5
print("Step 5:", beatles)


# testing list legth
print("The Fab", len(beatles))

```

Write a program that reflects these changes and lets you practice with the concept of lists. Your task is to:

  - step 1: create an empty list named `beatles`;
  - step 2: use the `append()` method to add the following members of the band to the list: `John Lennon, Paul McCartney`, and `George Harrison`;
  - step 3: use the `for` loop and the `append()` method to prompt the user to add the following members of the band to the list: `Stu Sutcliffe`, and `Pete Best`;
  - step 4: use the `del` instruction to remove `Stu Sutcliffe` and `Pete Best` from the list;
  - step 5: use the `insert()` method to add `Ringo Starr` to the beginning of the list.

By the way, are you a Beatles fan? (The Beatles is one of Greg's favorite bands. But wait...who's Greg...?)