# Key takeaways

1. A `class` is an idea (more or less abstract) which can be used to create a number of incarnations – such an incarnation is called an `object`.


2. When a class is derived from another class, their relation is named `inheritance`. The class which derives from the other class is named a `subclass`. The second side of this relation is named `superclass`. A way to present such a relation is an `inheritance diagram`, where:

  - superclasses are always presented `above` their subclasses;
  - relations between classes are shown as arrows directed `from the subclass toward its superclass`.

3. Objects are equipped with:

  - a `name` which identifies them and allows us to distinguish between them;
  - a set of `properties` (the set can be empty)
  - a set of `methods` (can be empty, too)

4. To define a Python class, you need to use the `class` keyword. For example:
```py
class This_Is_A_Class:
     pass
```

5. To create an object of the previously defined class, you need to use the class as if it were a function. For example:
```py
this_is_an_object = This_Is_A_Class()
```

## Exercise 1
If we assume that pythons, vipers, and cobras are subclasses of the same superclass, how would you call it?
A: Snake, reptile, vertebrate, animal – all these answers are acceptable.

## Exercise 2
Try to name a few python class subclasses.
A: Indian python, African rock python, ball python, Burmese python – the list is long.

## Exercise 3
Can you name one of your classes just "class"?
A: No, you can't – class is a keyword!
