# The stack - the object approach: continued
Any change you make inside the constructor that modifies the state of the `self` parameter will be reflected in the newly created object.

This means you can add any property to the object and the property will remain there until the object finishes its life or the property is explicitly removed.

Now let's `add just one property to the new object` - a list for a stack. We'll name it `stack_list`.

Just like here:
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.stack_list = []


stack_object = Stack()
print(len(stack_object.stack_list))
```

Note:

  - we've used the `dotted notation`, just like when invoking methods; this is the general convention for accessing an object's properties - you need to name the object, put a dot (`.`) after it, and specify the desired property's name; don't use parentheses! You don't want to invoke a method - you want to `access a property`;
  - if you set a property's value for the very first time (like in the constructor), you are creating it; from that moment on, the object has got the property and is ready to use its value;
  - we've done something more in the code - we've tried to access the `stack_list` property from outside the class immediately after the object has been created; we want to check the current length of the stack - have we succeeded?

Yes, we have - the code produces the following output:
```s
0
```

This is not we want from the stack. We prefer `stack_list` to be `hidden from the outside world`. Is that possible?

Yes, and it's simple, but not very intuitive.

======================================================================
# The stack - the object approach: continued
Take a look - we've added two underscores before the `stack_list` name - nothing more:
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__stack_list = []

stack_object = Stack()
print(len(stack_object.__stack_list))
```

The change invalidates the program.

Why?

When any class component has a `name starting with two underscores (__), it becomes private` - this means that it can be accessed only from within the class.

You cannot see it from the outside world. This is how Python implements the `encapsulation` concept.

Run the program to test our assumptions - an AttributeError exception should be raised.

======================================================================
# The object approach: a stack from scratch
Now it's time for the two functions (methods) implementing the push and pop operations. Python assumes that a function of this kind (a class activity) should be `immersed inside the class body` - just like a constructor.

We want to invoke these functions to `push` and `pop` values. This means that they should both be accessible to every class's user (in contrast to the previously constructed list, which is hidden from the ordinary class's users).

Such a component is called `public`, so you `can't begin its name with two (or more) underscores`. There is one more requirement - `the name must have no more than one trailing underscore`. As no trailing underscores at all fully meets the requirement, you can assume that the name is acceptable.

The functions themselves are simple. Take a look:
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__stack_list = []

    def push(self, val):
        self.__stack_list.append(val)

    def pop(self):
        val = self.__stack_list[-1]
        del self.__stack_list[-1]
        return val


stack_object = Stack()

stack_object.push(3)
stack_object.push(2)
stack_object.push(1)

print(stack_object.pop())
print(stack_object.pop())
print(stack_object.pop())
```

However, there's something really strange in the code. The functions look familiar, but they have more parameters than their procedural counterparts.

Here, both functions have a parameter named `self` at the first position of the parameters list.

Is it needed? Yes, it is.

All methods have to have this parameter. It plays the same role as the first constructor parameter.

`It allows the method to access entities (properties and activities/methods) carried out by the actual object`. You cannot omit it. Every time Python invokes a method, it implicitly sends the current object as the first argument.

This means that a `method is obligated to have at least one parameter, which is used by Python itself` - you don't have any influence on it.

If your method needs no parameters at all, this one must be specified anyway. If it's designed to process just one parameter, you have to specify two, and the first one's role is still the same.

There is one more thing that requires explanation - the way in which methods are invoked from within the `__stack_list` variable.

Fortunately, it's much simpler than it looks:

  - the first stage delivers the object as a whole → `self`;
  - next, you need to get to the `__stack_list` list → `self.__stack_list`;
  - with `__stack_list` ready to be used, you can perform the third and last step → `self.__stack_list.append(val)`.

The class declaration is complete, and all its components have been listed. The class is ready for use.

======================================================================
# The object approach: a stack from scratch
Having such a class opens up some new possibilities. For example, you can now have more than one stack behaving in the same way. Each stack will have its own copy of private data, but will utilize the same set of methods.

This is exactly what we want for this example.

Analyze the code:
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__stack_list = []

    def push(self, val):
        self.__stack_list.append(val)

    def pop(self):
        val = self.__stack_list[-1]
        del self.__stack_list[-1]
        return val


stack_object_1 = Stack()
stack_object_2 = Stack()

stack_object_1.push(3)
stack_object_2.push(stack_object_1.pop())

print(stack_object_2.pop())
```

There are `two stacks created from the same base class`. They work `independently`. You can make more of them if you want to.

Run the code in the editor and see what happens. Carry out your own experiments.

======================================================================
# The object approach: a stack from scratch (continued)
Analyze the snippet below - we've created three objects of the class `Stack`. Next, we've juggled them up. Try to predict the value outputted to the screen.
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__stack_list = []

    def push(self, val):
        self.__stack_list.append(val)

    def pop(self):
        val = self.__stack_list[-1]
        del self.__stack_list[-1]
        return val


little_stack = Stack()
another_stack = Stack()
funny_stack = Stack()

little_stack.push(1)
another_stack.push(little_stack.pop() + 1)
funny_stack.push(another_stack.pop() - 2)

print(funny_stack.pop())
```

So, what's the result? Run the program and check if you were right.
