# The object approach: a stack from scratch (continued)
Now let's go a little further. Let's `add a new class for handling stacks`.

The new class should be able to `evaluate the sum of all the elements currently stored on the stack`.

We don't want to modify the previously defined stack. It's already good enough in its applications, and we don't want it changed in any way. We want a new stack with new capabilities. In other words, we want to construct a subclass of the already existing `Stack` class.

The first step is easy: just `define a new subclass pointing to the class which will be used as the superclass`.

This is what it looks like:
```py
class AddingStack(Stack):
    pass
```

The class doesn't define any new component yet, but that doesn't mean that it's empty. `It gets all the components defined by its superclass` - the name of the superclass is written before the colon directly after the new class name.

This is what we want from the new stack:

  - we want the `push` method not only to push the value onto the stack but also to add the value to the `sum` variable;
  - we want the `pop` function not only to pop the value off the stack but also to subtract the value from the `sum` variable.

Firstly, let's add a new variable to the class. It'll be a `private variable`, like the stack list. We don't want anybody to manipulate the `sum` value.

As you already know, adding a new property to the class is done by the constructor. You already know how to do that, but there is something really intriguing inside the constructor. Take a look:
```py
class AddingStack(Stack):
    def __init__(self):
        Stack.__init__(self)
        self.__sum = 0
```

The second line of the constructor's body creates a property named `__sum` - it will store the total of all the stack's values.

But the line before it looks different. What does it do? Is it really necessary? Yes, it is.

Contrary to many other languages, Python forces you to explicitly invoke a superclass's constructor. Omitting this point will have harmful effects - the object will be deprived of the `__stack_list` list. Such a stack will not function properly.

This is the only time you can invoke any of the available constructors explicitly - it can be done inside the subclass's constructor.

Note the syntax:

  - you specify the superclass's name (this is the class whose constructor you want to run)
  - you put a dot (`.`)after it;
  - you specify the name of the constructor;
  - you have to point to the object (the class's instance) which has to be initialized by the constructor - this is why you have to specify the argument and use the `self` variable here; note: `invoking any method (including constructors) from outside the class never requires you to put the self argument at the argument's list` - invoking a method from within the class demands explicit usage of the `self` argument, and it has to be put first on the list.

Note: it's generally a recommended practice to invoke the superclass's constructor before any other initializations you want to perform inside the subclass. This is the rule we have followed in the snippet.
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__stack_list = []

    def push(self, val):
        self.__stack_list.append(val)

    def pop(self):
        val = self.__stack_list[-1]
        del self.__stack_list[-1]
        return val


class AddingStack(Stack):
    def __init__(self):
        Stack.__init__(self)
        self.__sum = 0
```

===============================================================================
# The object approach: a stack from scratch (continued)
Secondly, let's add two methods. But let us ask you: is it really adding? We have these methods in the superclass already. Can we do something like that?

Yes, we can. It means that we're going to `change the functionality of the methods, not their names`. We can say more precisely that the interface (the way in which the objects are handled) of the class remains the same when changing the implementation at the same time.

Let's start with the implementation of the `push` function. This is what we expect from it:

  - to add the value to the __sum variable;
  - to push the value onto the stack.

Note: the second activity has already been implemented inside the superclass - so we can use that. Furthermore, we have to use it, as there's no other way to access the `__stackList` variable.

This is how the `push` method looks in the subclass:
```py
def push(self, val):
    self.__sum += val
    Stack.push(self, val)
```

Note the way we've invoked the previous implementation of the `push` method (the one available in the superclass):

  - we have to specify the superclass's name; this is necessary in order to clearly indicate the class containing the method, to avoid confusing it with any other function of the same name;
  - we have to specify the target object and to pass it as the first argument (it's not implicitly added to the invocation in this context.)

We say that the `push` method has been overridden - the same name as in the superclass now represents a different functionality.
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__stackList = []

    def push(self, val):
        self.__stackList.append(val)

    def pop(self):
        val = self.__stackList[-1]
        del self.__stackList[-1]
        return val


class AddingStack(Stack):
    def __init__(self):
        Stack.__init__(self)
        self.__sum = 0


# Enter code here.
```

===============================================================================
# The object approach: a stack from scratch (continued)
This is the new `pop` function:
```py
def pop(self):
    val = Stack.pop(self)
    self.__sum -= val
    return val
```

So far, we've defined the `__sum` variable, but we haven't provided a method to get its value. It seems to be hidden. How can we reveal it and do it in a way that still protects it from modifications?

We have to define a new method. We'll name it `get_sum`. Its only task will be to `return the __sum value`.

Here it is:
```py
def get_sum(self):
    return self.__sum
```

So, let's look at the program in the editor. The complete code of the class is there. We can check its functioning now, and we do it with the help of a very few additional lines of code.

As you can see, we add five subsequent values onto the stack, print their sum, and take them all off the stack.

Okay, this has been a very brief introduction to Python's object programming. Soon we're going to tell you about it all in more detail.
```py
class Stack:
    def __init__(self):
        self.__stack_list = []

    def push(self, val):
        self.__stack_list.append(val)

    def pop(self):
        val = self.__stack_list[-1]
        del self.__stack_list[-1]
        return val


class AddingStack(Stack):
    def __init__(self):
        Stack.__init__(self)
        self.__sum = 0

    def get_sum(self):
        return self.__sum

    def push(self, val):
        self.__sum += val
        Stack.push(self, val)

    def pop(self):
        val = Stack.pop(self)
        self.__sum -= val
        return val


stack_object = AddingStack()

for i in range(5):
    stack_object.push(i)
print(stack_object.get_sum())

for i in range(5):
    print(stack_object.pop())
```
