# Instance variables
In general, a class can be equipped with two different kinds of data to form a class's properties. You already saw one of them when we were looking at stacks.

This kind of class property exists when and only when it is explicitly created and added to an object. As you already know, this can be done during the object's initialization, performed by the constructor.

Moreover, it can be done in any moment of the object's life. Furthermore, any existing property can be removed at any time.

Such an approach has some important consequences:

  - different objects of the same class `may possess different sets of properties`;
  - there must be a way to `safely check if a specific object owns the property` you want to utilize (unless you want to provoke an exception - it's always worth considering)
  - each object `carries its own set of properties` - they don't interfere with one another in any way.

Such variables (properties) are called `instance variables`.

The word instance suggests that they are closely connected to the objects (which are class instances), not to the classes themselves. Let's take a closer look at them.

Here is an example:
```py
class ExampleClass:
    def __init__(self, val = 1):
        self.first = val

    def set_second(self, val):
        self.second = val


example_object_1 = ExampleClass()
example_object_2 = ExampleClass(2)

example_object_2.set_second(3)

example_object_3 = ExampleClass(4)
example_object_3.third = 5

print(example_object_1.__dict__)
print(example_object_2.__dict__)
print(example_object_3.__dict__)
```

It needs one additional explanation before we go into any more detail. Take a look at the last three lines of the code.

Python objects, when created, are gifted with a `small set of predefined properties and methods`. Each object has got them, whether you want them or not. One of them is a variable named `__dict__` (it's a dictionary).

The variable contains the names and values of all the properties (variables) the object is currently carrying. Let's make use of it to safely present an object's contents.

Let's dive into the code now:

  - the class named `ExampleClass` has a constructor, which `unconditionally creates an instance variable` named `first`, and sets it with the value passed through the first argument (from the class user's perspective) or the second argument (from the constructor's perspective); note the default value of the parameter - any trick you can do with a regular function parameter can be applied to methods, too;

  - the class also has a `method which creates another instance variable`, named `second`;

  - we've created three objects of the class `ExampleClass`, but all these instances differ:

     - `example_object_1` only has the property named `first`;

     - `example_object_2` has two properties: `first` and `second`;

     - `example_object_3` has been enriched with a property named `third` just on the fly, outside the class's code - this is possible and fully permissible.

The program's output clearly shows that our assumptions are correct - here it is:
```s
{'first': 1}
{'second': 3, 'first': 2}
{'third': 5, 'first': 4}
```

There is one additional conclusion that should be stated here: `modifying an instance variable of any object has no impact on all the remaining objects`. Instance variables are perfectly isolated from each other.

=============================================================================
# Instance variables: continued
Take a look at the modified example in the editor.
```py
class ExampleClass:
    def __init__(self, val = 1):
        self.__first = val

    def set_second(self, val = 2):
        self.__second = val


example_object_1 = ExampleClass()
example_object_2 = ExampleClass(2)

example_object_2.set_second(3)

example_object_3 = ExampleClass(4)
example_object_3.__third = 5


print(example_object_1.__dict__)
print(example_object_2.__dict__)
print(example_object_3.__dict__)
```

It's nearly the same as the previous one. The only difference is in the property names. We've `added two underscores (__)` in front of them.

As you know, such an addition makes the instance variable `private` - it becomes inaccessible from the outer world.

The actual behavior of these names is a bit more complicated, so let's run the program. This is the output:
```s
{'_ExampleClass__first': 1}
{'_ExampleClass__first': 2, '_ExampleClass__second': 3}
{'_ExampleClass__first': 4, '__third': 5}
```

Can you see these strange names full of underscores? Where did they come from?

When Python sees that you want to add an instance variable to an object and you're going to do it inside any of the object's methods, it `mangles the operation` in the following way:

  - it puts a class name before your name;
  - it puts an additional underscore at the beginning.

This is why the `__first` becomes `_ExampleClass__first`.

`The name is now fully accessible from outside the class`. You can run a code like this:
```py
print(example_object_1._ExampleClass__first)
```

and you'll get a valid result with no errors or exceptions.

As you can see, making a property private is limited.

`The mangling won't work if you add a private instance variable outside the class code`. In this case, it'll behave like any other ordinary property.

=============================================================================
# Class variables
A class variable is `a property which exists in just one copy and is stored outside any object`.

Note: no instance variable exists if there is no object in the class; a class variable exists in one copy even if there are no objects in the class.

Class variables are created differently to their instance siblings. The example will tell you more:
```py
class ExampleClass:
    counter = 0
    def __init__(self, val = 1):
        self.__first = val
        ExampleClass.counter += 1


example_object_1 = ExampleClass()
example_object_2 = ExampleClass(2)
example_object_3 = ExampleClass(4)

print(example_object_1.__dict__, example_object_1.counter)
print(example_object_2.__dict__, example_object_2.counter)
print(example_object_3.__dict__, example_object_3.counter)
```

Look:

  - there is an assignment in the first list of the class definition - it sets the variable named `counter` to 0; initializing the variable inside the class but outside any of its methods makes the variable a class variable;
  - accessing such a variable looks the same as accessing any instance attribute - you can see it in the constructor body; as you can see, the constructor increments the variable by one; in effect, the variable counts all the created objects.

Running the code will cause the following output:
```s
{'_ExampleClass__first': 1} 3
{'_ExampleClass__first': 2} 3
{'_ExampleClass__first': 4} 3
```

Two important conclusions come from the example:

  - class variables `aren't shown in an object's __dict__` (this is natural as class variables aren't parts of an object) but you can always try to look into the variable of the same name, but at the class level - we'll show you this very soon;
  - a class variable `always presents the same value` in all class instances (objects)

=============================================================================
# Class variables: continued
Mangling a class variable's name has the same effects as those you're already familiar with.

Look at the example in the editor. Can you guess its output?

Run the program and check if your predictions were correct. Everything works as expected, doesn't it?
```py
class ExampleClass:
__counter = 0
def __init__(self, val = 1):
self.__first = val
ExampleClass.__counter += 1


example_object_1 = ExampleClass()
example_object_2 = ExampleClass(2)
example_object_3 = ExampleClass(4)

print(example_object_1.__dict__, example_object_1._ExampleClass__counter)
print(example_object_2.__dict__, example_object_2._ExampleClass__counter)
print(example_object_3.__dict__, example_object_3._ExampleClass__counter)
class ExampleClass:
```