# Class variables: continued
We told you before that class variables exist even when no class instance (object) had been created.

Now we're going to take the opportunity to show you `the difference between these two __dict__ variables,` the one from the class and the one from the object.

Look at the code in the editor. The proof is there.

Let's take a closer look at it:

  1. We define one class named ExampleClass;
  2. The class defines one class variable named varia;
  3. The class constructor sets the variable with the parameter's value;
  4. Naming the variable is the most important aspect of the example because:
    - Changing the assignment to `self.varia = val` would create an instance variable of the same name as the class's one;
    - Changing the assignment to `varia = val` would operate on a method's local variable; (we strongly encourage you to test both of the above cases - this will make it easier for you to remember the difference)
  5. The first line of the off-class code prints the value of the `ExampleClass.varia` attribute; note - we use the value before the very first object of the class is instantiated.
Run the code in the editor and check its output.

As you can see, the class' `__dict__` contains much more data than its object's counterpart. Most of them are useless now - the one we want you to check carefully shows the current `varia` value.

Note that the object's `__dict__` is empty - the object has no instance variables.
```py
class ExampleClass:
    varia = 1
    def __init__(self, val):
        ExampleClass.varia = val


print(ExampleClass.__dict__)
example_object = ExampleClass(2)

print(ExampleClass.__dict__)
print(example_object.__dict__)
```

==================================================================
# Checking an attribute's existence
Python's attitude to object instantiation raises one important issue - in contrast to other programming languages, `you may not expect that all objects of the same class have the same sets of properties`.

Just like in the example in the editor. Look at it carefully.
```py
class ExampleClass:
    def __init__(self, val):
        if val % 2 != 0:
            self.a = 1
        else:
            self.b = 1


example_object = ExampleClass(1)

print(example_object.a)
print(example_object.b)
```
The object created by the constructor can have only one of two possible attributes: `a` or `b`.

Executing the code will produce the following output:
```s
1
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File ".main.py", line 11, in 
    print(example_object.b)
AttributeError: 'ExampleClass' object has no attribute 'b'
```

As you can see, accessing a non-existing object (class) attribute causes an AttributeError exception.

==================================================================
# Checking an attribute's existence: continued
The try-except instruction gives you the chance to avoid issues with non-existent properties.

It's easy - look at the code in the editor.

As you can see, this action isn't very sophisticated. Essentially, we've just swept the issue under the carpet.

Fortunately, there is one more way to cope with the issue.


Python provides a `function which is able to safely check if any object/class contains a specified property`. The function is named `hasattr`, and expects two arguments to be passed to it:

  - the class or the object being checked;
  - the name of the property whose existence has to be reported (note: it has to be a string containing the attribute name, not the name alone)

The function returns True or False.

This is how you can utilize it:
```py
class ExampleClass:
    def __init__(self, val):
        if val % 2 != 0:
            self.a = 1
        else:
            self.b = 1


example_object = ExampleClass(1)
print(example_object.a)

if hasattr(example_object, 'b'):
    print(example_object.b)
```

```py
class ExampleClass:
    def __init__(self, val):
        if val % 2 != 0:
            self.a = 1
        else:
            self.b = 1


example_object = ExampleClass(1)
print(example_object.a)

try:
    print(example_object.b)
except AttributeError:
    pass
```

==================================================================
# Checking an attribute's existence: continued
Don't forget that the `hasattr()` function can operate on classes, too. You can use it `to find out if a class variable is available`, just like here in the example in the editor.
```py
class ExampleClass:
    attr = 1


print(hasattr(ExampleClass, 'attr'))
print(hasattr(ExampleClass, 'prop'))
```

The function returns True if the specified class contains a given attribute, and False otherwise.

Can you guess the code's output? Run it to check your guesses.


And one more example - look at the code below and try to predict its output:
```py
class ExampleClass:
    a = 1
    def __init__(self):
        self.b = 2


example_object = ExampleClass()

print(hasattr(example_object, 'b'))
print(hasattr(example_object, 'a'))
print(hasattr(ExampleClass, 'b'))
print(hasattr(ExampleClass, 'a'))
```

Were you successful? Run the code to check your predictions.

Okay, we've made it to the end of this section. In the next section we're going to talk about methods, as methods drive the objects and make them active.

