# Key takeaways

1. An `instance variable` is a property whose existence depends on the creation of an object. Every object can have a different set of instance variables.

Moreover, they can be freely added to and removed from objects during their lifetime. All object instance variables are stored inside a dedicated dictionary named `__dict__`, contained in every object separately.


2. An instance variable can be private when its name starts with `__`, but don't forget that such a property is still accessible from outside the class using a `mangled` name constructed as `_ClassName__PrivatePropertyName`.


3. A `class variable` is a property which exists in exactly one copy, and doesn't need any created object to be accessible. Such variables are not shown as `__dict__` content.

All a class's class variables are stored inside a dedicated dictionary named `__dict__`, contained in every class separately.


4. A function named `hasattr()` can be used to determine if any object/class contains a specified property.

For example:
```py
class Sample:
    gamma = 0 # Class variable.
    def __init__(self):
        self.alpha = 1 # Instance variable.
        self.__delta = 3 # Private instance variable.


obj = Sample()
obj.beta = 2  # Another instance variable (existing only inside the "obj" instance.)
print(obj.__dict__)
```

The code outputs:
```s
{'alpha': 1, '_Sample__delta': 3, 'beta': 2}
```

## Exercise 1
Which of the `Python` class properties are instance variables and which are class variables? Which of them are private?
```py
class Python:
    population = 1
    victims = 0
    def __init__(self):
        self.length_ft = 3
        self.__venomous = False
```
A: `population` and `victims` are `class` variables, while `length` and `__venomous` are `instance` variables (the latter is also private).

## Exercise 2
You're going to negate the `__venomous` property of the `version_2` object, ignoring the fact that the property is private. How will you do this?
```py
version_2 = Python()
```
A: `version_2._Python__venomous = not version_2._Python__venomous`

## Exercise 3
Write an expression which checks if the `version_2` object contains an instance property named `constrictor` (yes, constrictor!).
A: `hasattr(version_2, 'constrictor')`

