# Methods in detail
Let's summarize all the facts regarding the use of methods in Python classes.

As you already know, a `method is a function embedded inside a class`.

There is one fundamental requirement - a `method is obliged to have at least one parameter` (there are no such thing as parameterless methods - a method may be invoked without an argument, but not declared without parameters).

The first (or only) parameter is usually named `self`. We suggest that you follow the convention - it's commonly used, and you'll cause a few surprises by using other names for it.

The name self suggests the parameter's purpose - `it identifies the object for which the method is invoked`.

If you're going to invoke a method, you mustn't pass the argument for the `self` parameter - Python will set it for you.

The example in the editor shows the difference.
```py
class Classy:
    def method(self):
        print("method")


obj = Classy()
obj.method()
```
The code outputs:
```s
method
```

Note the way we've created the object - we've `treated the class name like a function`, returning a newly instantiated object of the class.

If you want the method to accept parameters other than self, you should:

  - place them after `self` in the method's definition;
  - deliver them during invocation without specifying self (as previously)

Just like here:
```py
class Classy:
    def method(self, par):
        print("method:", par)


obj = Classy()
obj.method(1)
obj.method(2)
obj.method(3)
```

The code outputs:
```s
method: 1
method: 2
method: 3
```

===========================================================================
# Methods in detail: continued
The `self` parameter is used `to obtain access to the object's instance and class variables`.

The example shows both ways of utilizing `self`:
```py
class Classy:
    varia = 2
    def method(self):
        print(self.varia, self.var)


obj = Classy()
obj.var = 3
obj.method()
```

The code outputs:
```s
2 3
```

The `self` parameter is also used `to invoke other object/class methods from inside the class`.

Just like here:
```py
class Classy:
    def other(self):
        print("other")

    def method(self):
        print("method")
        self.other()


obj = Classy()
obj.method()
```

The code outputs:
```s
method
other
```

=============================================================================
# Methods in detail: continued
If you name a method like this: `__init__`, it won't be a regular method - it will be a `constructor`.

If a class has a constructor, it is invoked automatically and implicitly when the object of the class is instantiated.

The constructor:

  - is `obliged to have the self parameter` (it's set automatically, as usual);
  - `may (but doesn't need to) have more parameters` than just `self`; if this happens, the way in which the class name is used to create the object must reflect the `__init__` definition;
  - `can be used to set up the object`, i.e., properly initialize its internal state, create instance variables, instantiate any other objects if their existence is needed, etc.

Look at the code in the editor. The example shows a very simple constructor at work.
```py
class Classy:
    def __init__(self, value):
        self.var = value


obj_1 = Classy("object")

print(obj_1.var)
```
Run it. The code outputs:
```s
object
```

Note that the constructor:

  - `cannot return a value`, as it is designed to return a newly created object and nothing else;
  - `cannot be invoked directly either from the object or from inside the class` (you can invoke a constructor from any of the object's subclasses, but we'll discuss this issue later.)

=============================================================================
# Methods in detail: continued
As `__init__` is a method, and a method is a function, you can do the same tricks with constructors/methods as you do with ordinary functions.

The example in the editor shows how to define a constructor with a default argument value. Test it.
```py
class Classy:
    def __init__(self, value = None):
        self.var = value


obj_1 = Classy("object")
obj_2 = Classy()

print(obj_1.var)
print(obj_2.var)
```
The code outputs:
```s
object
None
```

Everything we've said about `property name mangling` applies to method names, too - a method whose name starts with `__` is (partially) hidden.

The example shows this effect:
```py
class Classy:
    def visible(self):
        print("visible")
    
    def __hidden(self):
        print("hidden")


obj = Classy()
obj.visible()

try:
    obj.__hidden()
except:
    print("failed")

obj._Classy__hidden()
```

The code outputs:
```s
visible
failed
hidden
```

Run the program, and test it.

===================================================================
# The inner life of classes and objects
Each Python class and each Python object is pre-equipped with a set of useful attributes which can be used to examine its capabilities.

You already know one of these - it's the `__dict__` property.

Let's observe how it deals with methods - look at the code in the editor.
```py
class Classy:
    varia = 1
    def __init__(self):
        self.var = 2

    def method(self):
        pass

    def __hidden(self):
        pass


obj = Classy()

print(obj.__dict__)
print(Classy.__dict__)
```
Run it to see what it outputs. Check the output carefully.

Find all the defined methods and attributes. Locate the context in which they exist: inside the object or inside the class.

