# Inheritance: the is operator
There is also a Python operator worth mentioning, as it refers directly to objects - here it is:
```py
object_one is object_two
```

`The is operator checks whether two variables (object_one and object_two here) refer to the same object`.

Don't forget that `variables don't store the objects themselves, but only the handles pointing to the internal Python memory`.

Assigning a value of an object variable to another variable doesn't copy the object, but only its handle. This is why an operator like `is` may be very useful in particular circumstances.

Take a look at the code in the editor. Let's analyze it:
```py
class SampleClass:
    def __init__(self, val):
        self.val = val


object_1 = SampleClass(0)
object_2 = SampleClass(2)
object_3 = object_1
object_3.val += 1

print(object_1 is object_2)
print(object_2 is object_3)
print(object_3 is object_1)
print(object_1.val, object_2.val, object_3.val)

string_1 = "Mary had a little "
string_2 = "Mary had a little lamb"
string_1 += "lamb"

print(string_1 == string_2, string_1 is string_2)
```

  - there is a very simple class equipped with a simple constructor, creating just one property. The class is used to instantiate two objects. The former is then assigned to another variable, and its val property is incremented by one.
  - afterward, the is operator is applied three times to check all possible pairs of objects, and all val property values are also printed.
  - the last part of the code carries out another experiment. After three assignments, both strings contain the same texts, but these texts are stored in different objects.

The code prints:
```s
False
False
True
1 2 1
True False
```

The results prove that `object_1` and `object_3` are actually the same objects, while `string_1` and `string_2` aren't, despite their contents being the same.

================================================================================
# How Python finds properties and methods
Now we're going to look at how Python deals with inheriting methods.

Take a look at the example in the editor. Let's analyze it:
```py
class Super:
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name

    def __str__(self):
        return "My name is " + self.name + "."


class Sub(Super):
    def __init__(self, name):
        Super.__init__(self, name)


obj = Sub("Andy")

print(obj)

```

  - there is a class named `Super`, which defines its own constructor used to assign the object's property, named `name`.
  - the class defines the `__str__()` method, too, which makes the class able to present its identity in clear text form.
  - the class is next used as a base to create a subclass named `Sub`. The `Sub` class defines its own constructor, which invokes the one from the superclass. Note how we've done it: `Super.__init__(self, name`).
  - we've explicitly named the superclass, and pointed to the method to invoke `__init__()`, providing all needed arguments.
  - we've instantiated one object of class `Sub` and printed it.

The code outputs:
```s
My name is Andy.
```

Note: As there is no `__str__()` method within the `Sub` class, the printed string is to be produced within the `Super` class. This means that the `__str__()` method has been inherited by the `Sub` class.

================================================================================
# How Python finds properties and methods: continued
Look at the code in the editor. We've modified it to show you another method of accessing any entity defined inside the superclass.
```py
class Super:
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name

    def __str__(self):
        return "My name is " + self.name + "."


class Sub(Super):
    def __init__(self, name):
        super().__init__(name)


obj = Sub("Andy")

print(obj)
```

In the last example, we explicitly named the superclass. In this example, we make use of the `super()` function, which `accesses the superclass without needing to know its name`:
```py
super().__init__(name)
```

The `super()` function creates a context in which you don't have to (moreover, you mustn't) pass the self argument to the method being invoked - this is why it's possible to activate the superclass constructor using only one argument.

Note: you can use this mechanism not only to `invoke the superclass constructor, but also to get access to any of the resources available inside the superclass`.

================================================================================
# How Python finds properties and methods: continued
Let's try to do something similar, but with properties (more precisely: with `class variables`).

Take a look at the example in the editor.
```py
# Testing properties: class variables.
class Super:
    supVar = 1


class Sub(Super):
    subVar = 2


obj = Sub()

print(obj.subVar)
print(obj.supVar)
```

As you can see, the `Super` class defines one class variable named `supVar`, and the `Sub` class defines a variable named `subVar`.

Both these variables are visible inside the object of class `Sub` - this is why the code outputs:
```s
2
1
```

================================================================================
# How Python finds properties and methods: continued
The same effect can be observed with `instance variables` - take a look at the second example in the editor.
```py
# Testing properties: instance variables.
class Super:
    def __init__(self):
        self.supVar = 11


class Sub(Super):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.subVar = 12


obj = Sub()

print(obj.subVar)
print(obj.supVar)
```

The `Sub` class constructor creates an instance variable named `subVar`, while the `Super` constructor does the same with a variable named `supVar`. As previously, both variables are accessible from within the object of class `Sub`.

The program's output is:
```s
12
11
```

Note: the existence of the `supVar` variable is obviously conditioned by the `Super` class constructor invocation. Omitting it would result in the absence of the variable in the created object (try it yourself).
