# How Python finds properties and methods: continued
It's now possible to formulate a general statement describing Python's behavior.

When you try to access any object's entity, Python will try to (in this order):
```py
class Level1:
    variable_1 = 100
    def __init__(self):
        self.var_1 = 101

    def fun_1(self):
        return 102


class Level2(Level1):
    variable_2 = 200
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.var_2 = 201
    
    def fun_2(self):
        return 202


class Level3(Level2):
    variable_3 = 300
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.var_3 = 301

    def fun_3(self):
        return 302


obj = Level3()

print(obj.variable_1, obj.var_1, obj.fun_1())
print(obj.variable_2, obj.var_2, obj.fun_2())
print(obj.variable_3, obj.var_3, obj.fun_3())
```

  - find it `inside the object` itself;
  - find it `in all classes` involved in the object's inheritance line from bottom to top;

If both of the above fail, an `exception (AttributeError) is raised`.


The first condition may need some additional attention. As you know, all objects deriving from a particular class may have different sets of attributes, and some of the attributes may be added to the object a long time after the object's creation.

The example in the editor summarizes this in a `three-level inheritance line`. Analyze it carefully.

All the comments we've made so far are related to `single inheritance`, when a subclass has exactly one superclass. This is the most common situation (and the recommended one, too).

Python, however, offers much more here. In the next lessons we're going to show you some examples of `multiple inheritance`.

========================================================================
# How Python finds properties and methods: continued
`Multiple inheritance occurs when a class has more than one superclass`. Syntactically, such inheritance is presented as a comma-separated list of superclasses put inside parentheses after the new class name - just like here:
```py
class SuperA:
    var_a = 10
    def fun_a(self):
        return 11


class SuperB:
    var_b = 20
    def fun_b(self):
        return 21


class Sub(SuperA, SuperB):
    pass

obj = Sub()

print(obj.var_a, obj.fun_a())
print(obj.var_b, obj.fun_b())
```

The `Sub` class has two superclasses: `SuperA` and `SuperB`. This means that the `Sub` class `inherits all the goods offered by both SuperA and SuperB`.

The code prints:
```s
10 11
20 21
```
output

Now it's time to introduce a brand new term - `overriding`.

What do you think will happen if more than one of the superclasses defines an entity of a particular name?

========================================================================
# How Python finds properties and methods: continued
Let's analyze the example in the editor.
```py
class Level1:
    var = 100
    def fun(self):
        return 101


class Level2(Level1):
    var = 200
    def fun(self):
        return 201


class Level3(Level2):
    pass


obj = Level3()

print(obj.var, obj.fun())
```

Both, `Level1` and `Level2` classes define a method named `fun()` and a property named `var`. Does this mean that the `Level3` class object will be able to access two copies of each entity? Not at all.

`The entity defined later (in the inheritance sense) overrides the same entity defined earlier`. This is why the code produces the following output:
```s
200 201
```

As you can see, the `var` class variable and `fun()` method from the `Level2` class override the entities of the same names derived from the `Level1` class.

This feature can be intentionally used to modify default (or previously defined) class behaviors when any of its classes needs to act in a different way to its ancestor.

We can also say that `Python looks for an entity from bottom to top`, and is fully satisfied with the first entity of the desired name.

How does it work when a class has two ancestors offering the same entity, and they lie on the same level? In other words, what should you expect when a class emerges using multiple inheritance? Let's look at this.

========================================================================
# How Python finds properties and methods: continued
Let's take a look at the example in the editor.
```py
class Left:
    var = "L"
    var_left = "LL"
    def fun(self):
        return "Left"


class Right:
    var = "R"
    var_right = "RR"
    def fun(self):
        return "Right"


class Sub(Left, Right):
    pass


obj = Sub()

print(obj.var, obj.var_left, obj.var_right, obj.fun())
```

The `Sub` class inherits goods from two superclasses, `Left` and `Right` (these names are intended to be meaningful).

There is no doubt that the class variable `var_right` comes from the `Right` class, and `var_left` comes from `Left` respectively.

This is clear. But where does `var` come from? Is it possible to guess it? The same problem is encountered with the `fun()` method - will it be invoked from `Left` or from `Right`? Let's run the program - its output is:
```s
L LL RR Left
```

This proves that both unclear cases have a solution inside the `Left` class. Is this a sufficient premise to formulate a general rule? Yes, it is.

We can say that `Python looks for object components` in the following order:

  - `inside the object` itself;
  - `in its superclasses`, from bottom to top;
  - if there is more than one class on a particular inheritance path, Python scans them from left to right.

Do you need anything more? Just make a small amendment in the code - replace: `class Sub(Left, Right):` with: `class Sub(Right, Left):`, then run the program again, and see what happens.

What do you see now? We see:
```s
R LL RR Right
```

Do you see the same, or something different?

============================================================================
# How to build a hierarchy of classes
Building a hierarchy of classes isn't just art for art's sake.

If you divide a problem among classes and decide which of them should be located at the top and which should be placed at the bottom of the hierarchy, you have to carefully analyze the issue, but before we show you how to do it (and how not to do it), we want to highlight an interesting effect. It's nothing extraordinary (it's just a consequence of the general rules presented earlier), but remembering it may be key to understanding how some codes work, and how the effect may be used to build a flexible set of classes.

Take a look at the code in the editor. Let's analyze it:
```py
class One:
    def do_it(self):
        print("do_it from One")

    def doanything(self):
        self.do_it()


class Two(One):
    def do_it(self):
        print("do_it from Two")


one = One()
two = Two()

one.doanything()
two.doanything()
```

  - there are two classes, named `One` and `Two`, while `Two` is derived from `One`. Nothing special. However, one thing looks remarkable - the `do_it()` method.
  - the `do_it()` method is `defined twice:` originally inside `One` and subsequently inside `Two`. The essence of the example lies in the fact that it is `invoked just once` - inside `One`.

The question is - which of the two methods will be invoked by the last two lines of the code?

The first invocation seems to be simple, and it is simple, actually - invoking `doanything()` from the object named `one` will obviously activate the first of the methods.

The second invocation needs some attention. It's simple, too if you keep in mind how Python finds class components. The second invocation will launch `do_it()` in the form existing inside the `Two` class, regardless of the fact that the invocation takes place within the `One` class.

In effect, the code produces the following output:
```s
do_it from One
do_it from Two
```

Note: the situation in which `the subclass is able to modify its superclass behavior (just like in the example) is called polymorphism`. The word comes from Greek (polys: "many, much" and morphe, "form, shape"), which means that one and the same class can take various forms depending on the redefinitions done by any of its subclasses.

The method, redefined in any of the superclasses, thus changing the behavior of the superclass, is called `virtual`.

In other words, no class is given once and for all. Each class's behavior may be modified at any time by any of its subclasses.

We're going to show you `how to use polymorphism to extend class flexibility`.
