# How to build a hierarchy of classes: continued
Look at the example in the editor.

Does it resemble anything? Yes, of course it does. It refers to the example shown at the beginning of the module when we talked about the general concepts of objective programming.

It may look weird, but we didn't use inheritance in any way - just to show you that it doesn't limit us, and we managed to get ours.

We defined two separate classes able to produce two different kinds of land vehicles. The main difference between them is in how they turn. A wheeled vehicle just turns the front wheels (generally). A tracked vehicle has to stop one of the tracks.

Can you follow the code?

  - a tracked vehicle performs a turn by stopping and moving on one of its tracks (this is done by the `control_track()` method, which will be implemented later)
  - a wheeled vehicle turns when its front wheels turn (this is done by the `turn_front_wheels()` method)
  - the `turn()` method uses the method suitable for each particular vehicle.

Can you see `what's wrong with the code`?

The `turn()` methods look too similar to leave them in this form.

Let's rebuild the code - we're going to introduce a superclass to gather all the similar aspects of the driving vehicles, moving all the specifics to the subclasses.
```py
import time

class TrackedVehicle:
    def control_track(left, stop):
        pass

    def turn(left):
        control_track(left, True)
        time.sleep(0.25)
        control_track(left, False)


class WheeledVehicle:
    def turn_front_wheels(left, on):
        pass

    def turn(left):
        turn_front_wheels(left, True)
        time.sleep(0.25)
        turn_front_wheels(left, False)
```

================================================================================
# How to build a hierarchy of classes: continued
Look at the code in the editor again. This is what we've done:
```py
import time

class Vehicle:
    def change_direction(left, on):
        pass

    def turn(left):
        change_direction(left, True)
        time.sleep(0.25)
        change_direction(left, False)


class TrackedVehicle(Vehicle):
    def control_track(left, stop):
        pass

    def change_direction(left, on):
        control_track(left, on)


class WheeledVehicle(Vehicle):
    def turn_front_wheels(left, on):
        pass

    def change_direction(left, on):
        turn_front_wheels(left, on)
```

  - we defined a superclass named `Vehicle`, which uses the `turn()` method to implement a general scheme of turning, while the turning itself is done by a method named `change_direction()`; note: the former method is empty, as we are going to put all the details into the subclass (such a method is often called an `abstract method`, as it only demonstrates some possibility which will be instantiated later)
  - we defined a subclass named `TrackedVehicle` (note: it's derived from the `Vehicle` class) which instantiated the `change_direction()` method by using the specific (concrete) method named `control_track()`
  - respectively, the subclass named `WheeledVehicle` does the same trick, but uses the `turn_front_wheels()` method to force the vehicle to turn.

The most important advantage (omitting readability issues) is that this form of code enables you to implement a brand new turning algorithm just by modifying the `turn()` method, which can be done in just one place, as all the vehicles will obey it.

This is how `polymorphism helps the developer to keep the code clean and consistent`.

================================================================================
# How to build a hierarchy of classes: continued
Inheritance is not the only way of constructing adaptable classes. You can achieve the same goals (not always, but very often) by using a technique named composition.

`Composition is the process of composing an object using other different objects`. The objects used in the composition deliver a set of desired traits (properties and/or methods) so we can say that they act like blocks used to build a more complicated structure.

It can be said that:

  - `inheritance extends a class's capabilities` by adding new components and modifying existing ones; in other words, the complete recipe is contained inside the class itself and all its ancestors; the object takes all the class's belongings and makes use of them;
  - `composition projects a class as a container` able to store and use other objects (derived from other classes) where each of the objects implements a part of a desired class's behavior.

Let us illustrate the difference by using the previously defined vehicles. The previous approach led us to a hierarchy of classes in which the top-most class was aware of the general rules used in turning the vehicle, but didn't know how to control the appropriate components (wheels or tracks).

The subclasses implemented this ability by introducing specialized mechanisms. Let's do (almost) the same thing, but using composition. The class - like in the previous example - is aware of how to turn the vehicle, but the actual turn is done by a specialized object stored in a property named `controller`. The `controller` is able to control the vehicle by manipulating the relevant vehicle's parts.

Take a look into the editor - this is how it could look.
```py
import time

class Tracks:
    def change_direction(self, left, on):
        print("tracks: ", left, on)


class Wheels:
    def change_direction(self, left, on):
        print("wheels: ", left, on)


class Vehicle:
    def __init__(self, controller):
        self.controller = controller

    def turn(self, left):
        self.controller.change_direction(left, True)
        time.sleep(0.25)
        self.controller.change_direction(left, False)


wheeled = Vehicle(Wheels())
tracked = Vehicle(Tracks())

wheeled.turn(True)
tracked.turn(False)
```

There are two classes named `Tracks` and `Wheels` - they know how to control the vehicle's direction. There is also a class named `Vehicle` which can use any of the available controllers (the two already defined, or any other defined in the future) - the `controller` itself is passed to the class during initialization.

In this way, the vehicle's ability to turn is composed using an external object, not implemented inside the `Vehicle` class.

In other words, we have a universal vehicle and can install either tracks or wheels onto it.

The code produces the following output:
```s
wheels:  True True
wheels:  True False
tracks:  False True
tracks:  False False
```

================================================================================
# Single inheritance vs. multiple inheritance
As you already know, there are no obstacles to using multiple inheritance in Python. You can derive any new class from more than one previously defined classes.

There is only one "but". The fact that you can do it does not mean you have to.

Don't forget that:

  - a single inheritance class is always simpler, safer, and easier to understand and maintain;

  - multiple inheritance is always risky, as you have many more opportunities to make a mistake in identifying these parts of the superclasses which will effectively influence the new class;

  - multiple inheritance may make overriding extremely tricky; moreover, using the `super()` function becomes ambiguous;
  - multiple inheritance violates the `single responsibility principle` (more details here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_responsibility_principle) as it makes a new class of two (or more) classes that know nothing about each other;

  - we strongly suggest multiple inheritance as the last of all possible solutions - if you really need the many different functionalities offered by different classes, composition may be a better alternative.
