# Detailed anatomy of exceptions
Let's take a closer look at the exception's object, as there are some really interesting elements here (we'll return to the issue soon when we consider Python's input/output base techniques, as their exception subsystem extends these objects a bit).

The `BaseException` class introduces a property named `args`. It's a `tuple designed to gather all arguments passed to the class constructor`. It is empty if the construct has been invoked without any arguments, or contains just one element when the constructor gets one argument (we don't count the `self` argument here), and so on.

We've prepared a simple function to print the `args` property in an elegant way. You can see the function in the editor.
```py
def print_args(args):
    lng = len(args)
    if lng == 0:
        print("")
    elif lng == 1:
        print(args[0])
    else:
        print(str(args))


try:
    raise Exception
except Exception as e:
    print(e, e.__str__(), sep=' : ' ,end=' : ')
    print_args(e.args)

try:
    raise Exception("my exception")
except Exception as e:
    print(e, e.__str__(), sep=' : ', end=' : ')
    print_args(e.args)

try:
    raise Exception("my", "exception")
except Exception as e:
    print(e, e.__str__(), sep=' : ', end=' : ')
    print_args(e.args)
```

We've used the function to print the contents of the `args` property in three different cases, where the `exception` of the Exception class is raised in three different ways. To make it more spectacular, we've also printed the object itself, along with the result of the `__str__()` invocation.

The first case looks routine - there is just the name Exception after the `raise` keyword. This means that the object of this class has been created in a most routine way.

The second and third cases may look a bit weird at first glance, but there's nothing odd here - these are just the constructor invocations. In the second raise statement, the constructor is invoked with one argument, and in the third, with two.

As you can see, the program output reflects this, showing the appropriate contents of the `args` property:
```s
 :  :
my exception : my exception : my exception
('my', 'exception') : ('my', 'exception') : ('my', 'exception')
```

========================================================================
# How to create your own exception
The exceptions hierarchy is neither closed nor finished, and you can always extend it if you want or need to create your own world populated with your own exceptions.

It may be useful when you create a complex module which detects errors and raises exceptions, and you want the exceptions to be easily distinguishable from any others brought by Python.

This is done by `defining your own, new exceptions as subclasses derived from predefined ones`.

Note: if you want to create an exception which will be utilized as a specialized case of any built-in exception, derive it from just this one. If you want to build your own hierarchy, and don't want it to be closely connected to Python's exception tree, derive it from any of the top exception classes, like Exception.

Imagine that you've created a brand new arithmetic, ruled by your own laws and theorems. It's clear that division has been redefined, too, and has to behave in a different way than routine dividing. It's also clear that this new division should raise its own exception, different from the built-in ZeroDivisionError, but it's reasonable to assume that in some circumstances, you (or your arithmetic's user) may want to treat all zero divisions in the same way.

Demands like these may be fulfilled in the way presented in the editor. Look at the code, and let's analyze it:
```py
class MyZeroDivisionError(ZeroDivisionError):   
    pass


def do_the_division(mine):
    if mine:
        raise MyZeroDivisionError("some worse news")
    else:       
        raise ZeroDivisionError("some bad news")


for mode in [False, True]:
    try:
        do_the_division(mode)
    except ZeroDivisionError:
        print('Division by zero')

for mode in [False, True]:
    try:
        do_the_division(mode)
    except MyZeroDivisionError:
        print('My division by zero')
    except ZeroDivisionError:
        print('Original division by zero')
```

  - We've defined our own exception, named `MyZeroDivisionError`, derived from the built-in `ZeroDivisionError`. As you can see, we've decided not to add any new components to the class.

    In effect, an exception of this class can be - depending on the desired point of view - treated like a plain ZeroDivisionError, or considered separately.

  - The `do_the_division()` function raises either a `MyZeroDivisionError` or `ZeroDivisionError` exception, depending on the argument's value.

    The function is invoked four times in total, while the first two invocations are handled using only one `except` branch (the more general one) and the last two ones with two different branches, able to distinguish the exceptions (don't forget: the order of the branches makes a fundamental difference!)

========================================================================
# How to create your own exception: continued
When you're going to build a completely new universe filled with completely new creatures that have nothing in common with all the familiar things, you may want to `build your own exception structure`.

For example, if you work on a large simulation system which is intended to model the activities of a pizza restaurant, it can be desirable to form a separate hierarchy of exceptions.

You can start building it by `defining a general exception as a new base class` for any other specialized exception. We've done in in the following way:
```py
class PizzaError(Exception):
    def __init__(self, pizza, message):
        Exception.__init__(self, message)
        self.pizza = pizza
```

Note: we're going to collect more specific information here than a regular Exception does, so our constructor will take two arguments:

  - one specifying a pizza as a subject of the process,
  - and one containing a more or less precise description of the problem.

As you can see, we pass the second parameter to the superclass constructor, and save the first inside our own property.

A more specific problem (like an excess of cheese) can require a more specific exception. It's possible to derive the new class from the already defined `PizzaError` class, like we've done here:
```py
class TooMuchCheeseError(PizzaError):
    def __init__(self, pizza, cheese, message):
        PizzaError._init__(self, pizza, message)
        self.cheese = cheese
```

The `TooMuchCheeseError` exception needs more information than the regular `PizzaError` exception, so we add it to the constructor - the name `cheese` is then stored for further processing.

========================================================================
# How to create your own exception: continued
Look at the code in the editor. We've coupled together the two previously defined exceptions and harnessed them to work in a small example snippet.

One of these is raised inside the `make_pizza()` function when any of these two erroneous situations is discovered: a wrong pizza request, or a request for too much cheese.

Note:

  - removing the branch starting with `except TooMuchCheeseError` will cause all appearing exceptions to be classified as `PizzaError`;
  - removing the branch starting with `except PizzaErrorwill` cause the `TooMuchCheeseError` exceptions to remain unhandled, and will cause the program to terminate.

The previous solution, although elegant and efficient, has one important weakness. Due to the somewhat easygoing way of declaring the constructors, the new exceptions cannot be used as-is, without a full list of required arguments.

We'll remove this weakness by `setting the default values for all constructor parameters`. Take a look:
```py
class PizzaError(Exception):
    def __init__(self, pizza='uknown', message=''):
        Exception.__init__(self, message)
        self.pizza = pizza


class TooMuchCheeseError(PizzaError):
    def __init__(self, pizza='uknown', cheese='>100', message=''):
        PizzaError.__init__(self, pizza, message)
        self.cheese = cheese


def make_pizza(pizza, cheese):
    if pizza not in ['margherita', 'capricciosa', 'calzone']:
        raise PizzaError
    if cheese > 100:
        raise TooMuchCheeseError
    print("Pizza ready!")


for (pz, ch) in [('calzone', 0), ('margherita', 110), ('mafia', 20)]:
    try:
        make_pizza(pz, ch)
    except TooMuchCheeseError as tmce:
        print(tmce, ':', tmce.cheese)
    except PizzaError as pe:
        print(pe, ':', pe.pizza)
```

Now, if the circumstances permit, it is possible to use the class names alone.

