# Importing a module: continued
In the second method, the `import`'s syntax precisely points out which module's entity (or entities) are acceptable in the code:
```py
from math import pi
```

The instruction consists of the following elements:

  - the `from` keyword;
  - the `name of the module` to be (selectively) imported;
  - the `import` keyword;
  - the `name or list of names of the entity/entities` which are being imported into the namespace.

The instruction has this effect:

  - the listed entities (and only those ones) are `imported from the indicated module`;
  - the names of the imported entities are `accessible without qualification`.

Note: no other entities are imported. Moreover, you cannot import additional entities using a qualification - a line like this one:
```py
print(math.e)
```

will cause an error (`e` is Euler's number: 2.71828...)

Let's rewrite the previous script to incorporate the new technique.

Here it is:
```py
from math import sin, pi

print(sin(pi/2))
```

The output should be the same as previously, as in fact we've used the same entities as before: `1.0`. Copy the code, paste it in the editor, and run the program.

Does the code look simpler? Maybe, but the look is not the only effect of this kind of import. Let's show you that.

===================================================================
# Importing a module: continued
Look at the code in the editor. Analyze it carefully:
```py
from math import sin, pi

print(sin(pi / 2))

pi = 3.14


def sin(x):
    if 2 * x == pi:
        return 0.99999999
    else:
        return None


print(sin(pi / 2))
```

  - line 1: carry out the selective import;
  - line 3: make use of the imported entities and get the expected result (`1.0`)
  - lines 5 through 12: redefine the meaning of `pi` and `sin` - in effect, they supersede the original (imported) definitions within the code's namespace;
  - line 15: get `0.99999999`, which confirms our conclusions.

Let's do another test. Look at the code below:
```py
pi = 3.14


def sin(x):
    if 2 * x == pi:
        return 0.99999999
    else:
        return None


print(sin(pi / 2))

from math import sin, pi

print(sin(pi / 2))
```

Here, we've reversed the sequence of the code's operations:

  - lines 1 through 8: define our own `pi` and `sin`;
  - line 11: make use of them (`0.99999999` appears on the screen)
  - line 13: carry out the import - the imported symbols `supersede their previous definitions within the namespace`;
  - line 15: get `1.0` as a result.

===================================================================
# Importing a module: *
In the third method, the `import`'s syntax is a more aggressive form of the previously presented one:
```py
from module import *
```

As you can see, the name of an entity (or the list of entities' names) is replaced with a single asterisk (`*`).

Such an instruction `imports all entities from the indicated module`.

Is it convenient? Yes, it is, as it relieves you of the duty of enumerating all the names you need.

Is it unsafe? Yes, it is - unless you know all the names provided by the module, `you may not be able to avoid name conflicts`. Treat this as a temporary solution, and try not to use it in regular code.

# Importing a module: the as keyword
If you use the import module variant and you don't like a particular module's name (e.g., it's the same as one of your already defined entities, so qualification becomes troublesome) you can give it any name you like - this is called `aliasing`.

Aliasing causes the module to be identified under a different name than the original. This may shorten the qualified names, too.

Creating an alias is done together with importing the module, and demands the following form of the import instruction:
```py
import module as alias
```

The "module" identifies the original module's name while the "alias" is the name you wish to use instead of the original.

Note: `as` is a keyword.

=========================================================================
# Importing a module: continued
If you need to change the word `math`, you can introduce your own name, just like in the example:
```py
import math as m

print(m.sin(m.pi/2))
```

Note: after successful execution of an aliased import, the `original module name becomes inaccessible` and must not be used.


In turn, when you use the `from module import name` variant and you need to change the entity's name, you make an alias for the entity. This will cause the name to be replaced by the alias you choose.

This is how it can be done:
```py
from module import name as alias
```

As previously, the original (unaliased) name becomes inaccessible.

The phrase `name as alias` can be repeated - use commas to separate the multiplied phrases, like this:
```py
from module import n as a, m as b, o as c
```

The example may look a bit weird, but it works:
```py
from math import pi as PI, sin as sine

print(sine(PI/2))
```

Now you're familiar with the basics of using modules. Let us show you some modules and some of their useful entities.