# Key takeaways

1. If you want to import a module as a whole, you can do it using the `import module_name` statement. You are allowed to import more than one module at once using a comma-separated list. For example:
```py
import mod1
import mod2, mod3, mod4
```

although the latter form is not recommended due to stylistic reasons, and it's better and prettier to express the same intention in more a verbose and explicit form, such as:
```py
import mod2
import mod3
import mod4
```

2. If a module is imported in the above manner and you want to access any of its entities, you need to prefix the entity's name using `dot notation`. For example:
```py
import my_module

result = my_module.my_function(my_module.my_data)
```

The snippet makes use of two entities coming from the `my_module module`: a function named `my_function()` and a variable named `my_data`. Both names `must be prefixed by my_module`. None of the imported entity names conflicts with the identical names existing in your code's namespace.


3. You are allowed not only to import a module as a whole, but to import only individual entities from it. In this case, the imported entities `must not` be prefixed when used. For example:
```py
from module import my_function, my_data

result = my_function(my_data)
```

The above way - despite its attractiveness - is not recommended because of the danger of causing conflicts with names derived from importing the code's namespace.


4. The most general form of the above statement allows you to import `all entities` offered by a module:
```py
from my_module import *

result = my_function(my_data)
```

Note: this import's variant is not recommended due to the same reasons as previously (the threat of a naming conflict is even more dangerous here).

5. You can change the name of the imported entity "on the fly" by using the `as` phrase of the `import`. For example:
```py
from module import my_function as fun, my_data as dat

result = fun(dat)
```

## Exercise 1

You want to invoke the function `make_money()` contained in the module named `mint`. Your code begins with the following line:
```py
import mint
```

What is the proper form of the function's invocation?

A: mint.make_money()

## Exercise 2

You want to invoke the function `make_money()` contained in the module named `mint`. Your code begins with the following line:
```py
from mint import make_money
```

What is the proper form of the function's invocation?

A: make_money()

## Exercise 3

You've written a function named `make_money` on your own. You need to import a function of the same name from the `mint` module and don't want to rename any of your previously defined names. Which variant of the `import` statement may help you with the issue?

A: 
```py
# sample solution
from mint import make_money as make_more_money
```

## Exercise 4

What form of the `make_money` function invocation is valid if your code starts with the following line?
```py
from mint import *
```
A: make_money()