# Working with standard modules
Before we start going through some standard Python modules, we want to introduce the `dir()` function to you. It has nothing to do with the `dir` command you know from Windows and Unix consoles, as `dir()` doesn't show the contents of a disk directory/folder, but there is no denying that it does something really similar - it is able to reveal all the names provided through a particular module.

There is one condition: the module has to have been previously `imported` as a whole (i.e., using the import module instruction - from module` is not enough).

The function returns an `alphabetically sorted list` containing all entities' names available in the module identified by a name passed to the function as an argument:
```py
dir(module)
```

Note: if the module's name has been aliased, you must use the alias, not the original name.

Using the function inside a regular script doesn't make much sense, but it is still possible.

For example, you can run the following code to print the names of all entities within the `math` module:
```py
import math

for name in dir(math):
    print(name, end="\t")
```

The example code should produce the following output:
```s
__doc__	__loader__	__name__	__package__	__spec__	acos	acosh	asin	asinh	atan	atan2	atanh	ceil	copysign	cos	cosh	degrees	e	erf	erfc	exp	expm1	fabs	factorial	floor	fmod	frexp	fsum	gamma	hypot	isfinite	isinf	isnan	ldexp	lgamma	log	log10	log1p	log2	modf	pi	pow	radians	sin	sinh	sqrt	tan	tanh	trunc	
```

Have you noticed these strange names beginning with `__` at the top of the list? We'll tell you more about them when we talk about the issues related to writing your own modules.

Some of the names might bring back memories from math lessons, and you probably won't have any problems guessing their meanings.

Using the `dir()` function inside a code may not seem very useful - usually you want to know a particular module's contents before you write and run the code.

Fortunately, you can execute the function `directly in the Python console` (IDLE), without needing to write and run a separate script.

This is how it can be done:
```py
import math
dir(math)
```

You should see something similar to this:

=====================================================================
# Selected functions from the math module
Let's start with a quick preview of some of the functions provided by the `math` module.

We've chosen them arbitrarily, but that doesn't mean that the functions we haven't mentioned here are any less significant. Dive into the modules' depths yourself - we don't have the space or the time to talk about everything in detail here.

The first group of the `math`'s functions are connected with trigonometry:

  - `sin(x)` → the sine of x;
  - `cos(x)` → the cosine of x;
  - `tan(x)` → the tangent of x.

All these functions take one argument (an angle measurement expressed in radians) and return the appropriate result (be careful with `tan()` - not all arguments are accepted).

Of course, there are also their inversed versions:

  - `asin(x)` → the arcsine of x;
  - `acos(x)` → the arccosine of x;
  - `atan(x)` → the arctangent of x.

These functions take one argument (mind the domains) and return a measure of an angle in radians.


To effectively operate on angle measurements, the `math` module provides you with the following entities:

  - `pi` → a constant with a value that is an approximation of π;
  - `radians(x)` → a function that converts x from degrees to radians;
  - `degrees(x)` → acting in the other direction (from radians to degrees)

Now look at the code in the editor. The example program isn't very sophisticated, but can you predict its results?


Apart from the circular functions (listed above) the `math` module also contains a set of their `hyperbolic analogues`:

  - `sinh(x)` → the hyperbolic sine;
  - `cosh(x)` → the hyperbolic cosine;
  - `tanh(x)` → the hyperbolic tangent;
  - `asinh(x)` → the hyperbolic arcsine;
  - `acosh(x)` → the hyperbolic arccosine;
  - `atanh(x)` → the hyperbolic arctangent.

```py
from math import pi, radians, degrees, sin, cos, tan, asin

ad = 90
ar = radians(ad)
ad = degrees(ar)

print(ad == 90.)
print(ar == pi / 2.)
print(sin(ar) / cos(ar) == tan(ar))
print(asin(sin(ar)) == ar)
```
```s
True
True
True
True
```

=====================================================================
# Selected functions from the math module: continued
Another group of the `math`'s functions is formed by functions which are connected with `exponentiation`:

  - `e` → a constant with a value that is an approximation of Euler's number (e)
  - `exp(x)` → finding the value of ex;
  - `log(x)` → the natural logarithm of x
  - `log(x, b)` → the logarithm of x to base b
  - `log10(x)` → the decimal logarithm of x (more precise than `log(x, 10)`)
  - `log2(x)` → the binary logarithm of x (more precise than `log(x, 2)`)

Note: the `pow()` function:

  - `pow(x, y)` → finding the value of xy (mind the domains)

This is a built-in function, and doesn't have to be imported.

Look at the code in the editor. Can you predict its output?
```py
from math import e, exp, log

print(pow(e, 1) == exp(log(e)))
print(pow(2, 2) == exp(2 * log(2)))
print(log(e, e) == exp(0))
```
```s
False
True
True
```

=====================================================================
# Selected functions from the math module: continued
The last group consists of some general-purpose functions like:

  - `ceil(x)` → the ceiling of x (the smallest integer greater than or equal to x)
  - `floor(x)` → the floor of x (the largest integer less than or equal to x)
  - `trunc(x)` → the value of x truncated to an integer (be careful - it's not an equivalent either of ceil or floor)
  - `factorial(x)` → returns x! (x has to be an integral and not a negative)
  - `hypot(x, y)` → returns the length of the hypotenuse of a right-angle triangle with the leg lengths equal to x and y (the same as `sqrt(pow(x, 2) + pow(y, 2))` but more precise)

Look at the code in the editor. Analyze the program carefully.
```py
from math import ceil, floor, trunc

x = 1.4
y = 2.6

print(floor(x), floor(y))
print(floor(-x), floor(-y))
print(ceil(x), ceil(y))
print(ceil(-x), ceil(-y))
print(trunc(x), trunc(y))
print(trunc(-x), trunc(-y))
```

It demonstrates the fundamental differences between `ceil()`, `floor()` and `trunc()`.

Run the program and check its output.
```s
1 2
-2 -3
2 3
-1 -2
1 2
-1 -2
```