# Key takeaways

1. While a `module` is designed to couple together some related entities (functions, variables, constants, etc.), a `package` is a container which enables the coupling of several related modules under one common name. Such a container can be distributed as-is (as a batch of files deployed in a directory sub-tree) or it can be packed inside a zip file.


2. During the very first import of the actual module, Python translates its source code into the `semi-compiled` format stored inside the `pyc` files, and deploys these files into the `__pycache__` directory located in the module's home directory.


3. If you want to instruct your module's user that a particular entity should be treated as `private` (i.e. not to be explicitly used outside the module) you can mark its name with either the `_` or `__` prefix. Don't forget that this is only a recommendation, not an order.


4. The names shabang, shebang, hasbang, poundbang, and hashpling describe the digraph written as `#!`, used to instruct Unix-like OSs how the Python source file should be launched. This convention has no effect under MS Windows.


5. If you want convince Python that it should take into account a non-standard package's directory, its name needs to be inserted/appended into/to the import directory list stored in the `path` variable contained in the `sys` module.


6. A Python file named `__init__.py` is implicitly run when a package containing it is subject to import, and is used to initialize a package and/or its sub-packages (if any). The file may be empty, but must not be absent.

## Exercise 1
You want to prevent your module's user from running your code as an ordinary script. How will you achieve such an effect?
A:
```py
import sys

if __name__ == "__main__":
    print "Don't do that!"
    sys.exit()
```

## Exercise 2
Some additional and necessary packages are stored inside the `D:\Python\Project\Modules` directory. Write a code ensuring that the directory is traversed by Python in order to find all requested modules.
A:
```py
import sys

# note the double backslashes!
sys.path.append("D:\\Python\\Project\\Modules")
```

## Exercise 3
The directory mentioned in the previous exercise contains a sub-tree of the following structure:
```s
abc
 |__ def
      |__ mymodule.py
```

Assuming that `D:\Python\Project\Modules` has been successfully appended to the `sys.path` list, write an import directive letting you use all the `mymodule` entities.
A: import abc.def.mymodule