# How to use pip
Now we’re ready to ask pip what it can do for us. Let's do it – issue the following command:
```s
pip help
```
and wait for pip's response. This is what it looks like:
```s
pip help
```

Don't forget that you may be obliged to replace pip with pip3 if your environment requires this.

The list produced by pip summarizes all the available operations, and the last of them is `help`, which we've just used already.

If you want to know more about any of the listed operations, you can use the following form of pip invocation:
```s
pip help operation
```

For example, the line:
```s
pip help install
```

will show you detailed information about using and parameterizing the install command.

If you want to know what Python packages have been installed so far, you can use the list operation – just like this:
```s
pip list
```

The output you’ll see is rather unpredictable. Don't be surprised if your screen ends up being filled with completely different content. Ours look as follows:
```
pip list
```
As you can see, there are two columns in the list, one showing the name of the installed package, and the other showing the version of the package. We can’t predict the state of your Python installation.

The only thing we know for sure is that your list contains the two lines we see on our list: pip and setuptools. This happens because the OS is convinced that a user wanting pip will very likely need the setuptools soon. It’s not wrong.

===============================================================
# How to use pip: continued
The pip list isn't very informative, and it may happen that it won't satisfy your curiosity. Fortunately, there’s a command that can tell you more about any of the installed packages (note the word `installed`). The syntax of the command looks as follows:
```s
pip show package_name
```

We’re going to use it in a slightly deceptive way – we want to convince pip to confess something about itself. This is how we do it:
```s
pip show pip
```

It looks a bit odd, doesn't it? Despite this, it works fine, and pip's self-presentation looks consistent and current:
```
pip show pip
```
You may ask where this data comes from? Is pip really so perceptive? Not at all – the information appearing on the screen is taken from inside the package being shown. In other words, the package's creator is obliged to equip it with all the needed data (or to express it more precisely – metadata).

Look at the two lines at the bottom of the output. They show:

  - which packages are needed to successfully utilize the package (Requires:)
  - which packages need the package to be successfully utilized (Required-by:)

As you can see, both properties are empty. Feel free to try to use the `show` command in relation to any other installed package.

The power of pip comes from the fact that it’s actually a gateway to the Python software universe. Thanks to that, you can browse and install any of the hundreds of ready-to-use packages gathered in the PyPI repositories. Don't forget that pip is not able to store all PyPI content locally (it’s unnecessary and it would be uneconomical).

In effect, pip uses the Internet to query PyPI and to download the required data. This means that you have to have a network connection working whenever you’re going to ask pip for anything that may involve direct interactions with the PyPI infrastructure.

One of these cases occurs when you want to search through PyPI in order to find a desired package. This kind of search is initiated by the following command:
```s
pip search anystring
```

The `anystring` provided by you will be searched in:

  - the names of all the packages;
  - the summary strings of all the packages.

Be aware of the fact that some searches may generate a real avalanche of data, so try to be as specific as possible. For example, an innocent-looking query like this one:
```s
pip search pip
```
produces more than 100 lines of results (try it yourself – don't take our word for it). By the way – the search is case insensitive.

If you’re not a fan of console reading, you can use the alternative way of browsing PyPI content offered by a search engine, available at https://pypi.org/search.

===============================================================
# How to use pip: continued
Assuming that your search is successful (or you’re determined to install a specific package of an already known name) you can use pip to install the package onto your computer.

Two possible scenarios may be put into action now:

  - you want to install a new package for you only – it won't be available for any other user (account) existing on your computer; this procedure is the only one available if you can’t elevate your permissions and act as a system administrator;
  - you’ve decided to install a new package system-wide – you have administrative rights and you're not afraid to use them.

To distinguish between these two actions, pip uses a dedicated option named --user (note the double dash). The presence of this option instructs pip to act locally on behalf of your (non-administrative) user.

If you don’t add this, pip assumes that you’re as a system administrator and it’ll do nothing to correct you if you’re not.

In our case, we’re going to install a package named pygame – it's an extended and complex library allowing programmers to develop computer games using Python.

The project has been in development since the year 2000, so it's a mature and reliable piece of code. If you want to know more about the project and about the community which leads it, visit https://www.pygame.org.

If you’re a system administrator, you can install pygame using the following command:
```s
pip install pygame
```
If you're not an admin, or you don't want to fatten up your OS by installing pygame system-wide, you can install it for you only:
```s
pip install --user pygame
```

It's up to you which of the above procedures you want to take place.
```s
pip install --user pygame
```
Pip has a habit of displaying fancy textual animation indicating the installation progress, so watch the screen carefully – don't miss the show! If the process is successful, you’ll see something like this:

We encourage you to use:
```s
pip show pygame
```

and
```s
pip list
```

to get more information about what actually happened.

===============================================================
# How to use pip: a simple test program
Now that pygame is finally accessible, we can try to use it in a very simple test program. Let’s comment on it briefly.
```py
import pygame

run = True
width = 400
height = 100
pygame.init()
screen = pygame.display.set_mode((width, height))
font = pygame.font.SysFont(None, 48)
text = font.render("Welcome to pygame", True, (255, 255, 255))
screen.blit(text, ((width - text.get_width()) // 2, (height - text.get_height()) // 2))
pygame.display.flip()
while run:
    for event in pygame.event.get():
        if event.type == pygame.QUIT\
        or event.type == pygame.MOUSEBUTTONUP\
        or event.type == pygame.KEYUP:
            run = False

```
  - line 1: import pygame and let it serve us;
  - line 3: the program will run as long as the run variable is True;
  - lines 4 and 5: determine the window's size;
  - line 6: initialize the pygame environment;
  - line 7: prepare the application window and set its size;
  - line 8: make an object representing the default font of size 48 points;
  - line 9: make an object representing a given text – the text will be anti-aliased (True) and white (255,255,255)
  - line 10: insert the text into the (currently invisible) screen buffer;
  - line 11: flip the screen buffers to make the text visible;
  - line 12: the pygame main loop starts here;
  - line 13: get a list of all pending pygame events;
  - lines 14 through 16: check whether the user has closed the window or clicked somewhere inside it or pressed any key;
  - line 15: if yes, stop executing the code.

And save with nama file testpg.py


===============================================================
# How to use pip: continued
This is what we expect from our impressive code:
Command prompt - python testpg.py

The `pip install` has two important additional abilities:

  - it is able to `update` a locally installed package – e.g., if you want to make sure that you’re using the latest version of a particular package, you can run the following command:
    ```s
    pip install -U package_name
    ```
    where `-U` means update. Note: this form of the command makes use of the `--user` option for the same purpose as presented previously;

  - it is able to `install a user-selected version` of a package (pip installs the `newest` available version by default); to achieve this goal you should use the following syntax:
    ```s
    pip install package_name==package_version
    ```
    (note the double equals sign) e.g.,
    ```s
    pip install pygame==1.9.2
    ```

=================================================================
# How to use pip: continued
If any of the currently installed packages are `no longer needed` and you want to get rid of them, pip will be useful, too. Its `uninstall` command will execute all the needed steps.

The required syntax is clear and simple:
```s
pip uninstall package_name
```

so if you don't want pygame anymore you can execute the following command:
```s
pip uninstall pygame
```

Pip will want to know if you’re sure about the choice you're making – be prepared to give the right answer.

The process looks like this:

Command prompt - pip uninstall pygame

=================================================================
# Use pip!
Pip's capabilities don't end here, but the command set we've presented to you is enough to start successfully managing packages that aren't a part of the regular Python installation.

We hope we’ve encouraged you to carry out your own experiments with pip and the Python package universe. PyPI invites you to dive into its extensive resources.

Some say that one of the most important programming virtues is laziness. Don't get us wrong – we don't want you to spend all day napping on the couch and dreaming of Python code.

A lazy programmer is a programmer who looks for existing solutions and analyzes the available code before they start to develop their own software from scratch.

This is why PyPI and pip exist – use them!