# Key takeaways

1. A `repository` (or `repo` for short) designed to collect and share free Python code exists and works under the name `Python Package Index` (PyPI) although it's also likely that you come across a very niche name `The Cheese Shop`. The Shop's website is available at https://pypi.org/.


2. To make use of The Cheese Shop the specialized tool has been created and its name is `pip` (pip installs packages while pip stands for... ok, don't mind). As pip may not be deployed as a part of standard Python installation, it is possible that you will need to install it manually. Pip is a console tool.


3. To check pip's version one the following commands should be issued:
```s
pip --version
```
or
```s
pip3 --version
```

Check yourself which of these works for you in your OS' environment.


4. List of main pip activities looks as follows:

  - `pip help operation` - shows brief pip's description;
  - `pip list` - shows list of currently installed packages;
  - `pip show package_name` - shows package_name info including package's dependencies;
  - `pip search anystring` - searches through PyPI directories in order to find packages which name contains anystring;
  - `pip install name` - installs name system-wide (expect problems when you don't have administrative rights);
  - `pip install --user name` - install name for you only; no other your platform's user will be able to use it;
  - `pip install -U name` - updates previously installed package;
  - `pip uninstall name` - uninstalls previously installed package;

## Exercise 1
Where does the name "The Cheese Shop" come from?
A: It's a reference to an old Monty Python's sketch of the same name.

## Exercise 2
Why should I ensure which one of pip and pip3 works for me?
A: When Python 2 and Python 3 coexist in your OS, it's likely that pip identifies the instance of pip working with Python 2 packages only.

## Exercise 3
How can I determine if my pip works with either Python 2 or Python 3?
A: `pip --version` will tell you that.

## Exercise 4
Unfortunately, I don't have administrative right. What should I do to install a package system-wide?
A: You have to ask your sysadmin - don't try to hack your OS!
