1. A list of package's depedencies can be obtained from pip using its command named:
    A: show

2. What is true about updating already installed Python packages?
    T: it's performed by the install commands accompanied by the -U option

3. A predefined Python variable that stores the current modoles name is called:
    T: `__name__`

4. Choose the true statements. (Select two answers)
  1. The `version` function from the `platform` module return a string with your Python version
  2. The `processor` function from the `platform` module return an interger with the number of processes currently running in your OS
  3. THe `version` function from the `platform` module return a string with your OS version
  4. The `system` function from the `platform` module return a string with your OS name
    A: 2 & 4

5. What is true about the pip install command? (Select two answers)
  1. it always installs the newest package version and it cannot be changed
  2. it installs a package system-wide only when the --system option is specified
  3. it installs a package per user only when the --user option is specified
  4. it allows the user to install a specific version of the package
    `T: 1 & 4`

6. The `pip list` command presents a list of:
    A: locally installed packages

7. The follwing statement:
 ```py
 from a.b import c
 ```
 causes the import of:
    A: entity a from module b from package c

8. What is true about the `pip search` command? (Select three answer)
  1. it searches through package names only
  2. it needs working internet connection to work
  3. it searches through all PyPI packages
  3. all searches are limited to locally installed packages
    A: 1, 2 & 3

9. Knowing that a function named `fun()` resides in a modules in a module named `mod`, choose the correct way to import it:
    A: from mod import fun

10. THe pyc file contains:
    A: compiled Python code

11. What is the expected output of the following code?
  ```py
  from random import randint

  for i in range(2):
      print(randint(1, 2), end=``)
  ```
    A: 12 or 21

12. During the first import of a module, Python deploys the `pyc` files in the directory called:
    A: `__pycache__`

13. Knowing that a function named fun() resides in a module named mod, and it has been imported using the following line:
    ```py
    import mod
    ```
    Choose the way it can be invoked in your code:
    `T: mod.fun()`

14. The digraph written as `#!` is used to:
    `T: create a docstring`

15. A function which return a list of all entities available in a module is called:
    `T: dir()`

16. What is the expected value of the result variable after the following code is executed?
 ```py
 import math

 result = math.e != math.pow(2, 4)
 print(int(result))
 ```
    A: 1

17. When a module is imported, it's contents:
    `T: are ignored`

18. How to use pip to remove an installed package?
    A: pip uninstall package
