# Strings - a brief review
Let's do a brief review of the nature of Python's strings.

First of all, Python's strings (or simply strings, as we're not going to discuss any other language's strings) are `immutable sequences`.

It's very important to note this, because it means that you should expect some familiar behavior from them.

Let's analyze the code in the editor to understand what we're talking about:

  - Take a look at Example 1. The len() function used for strings returns a number of characters contained by the arguments. The snippet outputs 2.
  - Any string can be empty. Its length is 0 then - just like in Example 2.
  - Don't forget that a backslash (\) used as an escape character is not included in the string's total length. The code in Example 3, therefore, outputs 3.

Run the three example codes and check.
```py
# Example 1

word = 'by'
print(len(word))


# Example 2

empty = ''
print(len(empty))


# Example 3

i_am = 'I\'m'
print(len(i_am))

```

========================================================================
# Multiline strings
Now is a very good moment to show you another way of specifying strings inside the Python source code. Note that the syntax you already know won't let you use a string occupying more than one line of text.

For this reason, the code here is erroneous:
```py
multiline = 'Line #1
Line #2'

print(len(multiline))
```

Fortunately, for these kinds of strings, Python offers separate, convenient, and simple syntax.


Look at the code in the editor. This is what it looks like.

As you can see, the string starts with `three apostrophes`, not one. The same tripled apostrophe is used to terminate it.

The number of text lines put inside such a string is arbitrary.

The snippet outputs `15`.

Count the characters carefully. Is this result correct or not? It looks okay at first glance, but when you count the characters, it doesn't.

`Line #1` contains seven characters. Two such lines comprise 14 characters. Did we lose a character? Where? How?

No, we didn't.

`The missing character is simply invisible - it's a whitespace`. It's located between the two text lines.

It's denoted as: `\n`.

Do you remember? It's a special (control) character used to `force a line feed` (hence its name: LF). You can't see it, but it counts.

The multiline strings can be delimited by `triple quotes`, too, just like here:
```py
multiline = """Line #1
Line #2"""

print(len(multiline))
```

Choose the method that is more comfortable for you. Both work the same.

========================================================================
# Operations on strings
Like other kinds of data, strings have their own set of permissible operations, although they're rather limited compared to numbers.

In general, strings can be:

  - `concatenated` (joined)
  - `replicated`.

The first operation is performed by the `+` operator (note: it's not an addition) while the second by the `*` operator (note again: it's not a multiplication).

The ability to use the same operator against completely different kinds of data (like numbers vs. strings) is called overloading (as such an operator is `overloaded` with different duties).

Analyze the example:
```py
str1 = 'a'
str2 = 'b'

print(str1 + str2)
print(str2 + str1)
print(5 * 'a')
print('b' * 4)
```

  - The `+` operator used against two or more strings produces a new string containing all the characters from its arguments (note: the order matters - this overloaded `+`, in contrast to its numerical version, is `not commutative`)
  - the `*` operator needs a string and a number as arguments; in this case, the order doesn't matter - you can put the number before the string, or vice versa, the result will be the same - a new string created by the nth replication of the argument's string.
The snippet produces the following output:
```s
ab
ba
aaaaa
bbbb
```

Note: shortcut variants of the above operators are also applicable for strings (`+=` and `*=`).

========================================================================
# Operations on strings: ord()
If you want `to know a specific character's ASCII/UNICODE code point value`, you can use a function named `ord()` (as in ordinal).

The function needs a `one-character string as its argument` - breaching this requirement causes a TypeError exception, and returns a number representing the argument's code point.
```py
# Demonstrating the ord() function.

char_1 = 'a'
char_2 = ' '  # space

print(ord(char_1))
print(ord(char_2))
```
Look at the code in the editor, and run it. The snippet outputs:
```s
97
32
```

Now assign different values to `char_1` and `char_2`, e.g., `α` (Greek alpha), and `ę` (a letter in the Polish alphabet); then run the code and see what result it outputs. Carry out your own experiments.

========================================================================
# Operations on strings: chr()
If you know the code point (number) and want to get the corresponding character, you can use a function named `chr()`.

The function `takes a code point and returns its character`.

Invoking it with an invalid argument (e.g., a negative or invalid code point) causes ValueError or TypeError exceptions.
```py
# Demonstrating the chr() function.

print(chr(97))
print(chr(945))
```
Run the code in the editor. The example snippet outputs:
```s
a
α
```

Note:

  - `chr(ord(x)) == x`
  - `ord(chr(x)) == x`

Again, run your own experiments.


