# Strings as sequences: indexing
We told you before that `Python strings are sequences`. It's time to show you what that actually means.

Strings aren't lists, but `you can treat them like lists in many particular cases`.

For example, if you want to access any of a string's characters, you can do it using `indexing`, just like in the example below. Run the program:
```py
# Indexing strings.

the_string = 'silly walks'

for ix in range(len(the_string)):
    print(the_string[ix], end=' ')

print()
```

Be careful - don't try to pass a string's boundaries - it will cause an exception.

The example output is:
```s
s i l l y   w a l k s
```

By the way, negative indices behave as expected, too. Check this yourself.


# Strings as sequences: iterating
`Iterating through the strings` works, too. Look at the example below:
```s
# Iterating through a string.

the_string = 'silly walks'

for character in the_string:
    print(character, end=' ')

print()
```

The output is the same as previously. Check.
```s
s i l l y   w a l k s
```

====================================================================
# Slices
Moreover, everything you know about `slices` is still usable.

We've gathered some examples showing how slices work in the string world. Look at the code in the editor, analyze it, and run it.

You won't see anything new in the example, but we want you to be sure that you can explain all the lines of the code.
```py
# Slices

alpha = "abdefg"

print(alpha[1:3])
print(alpha[3:])
print(alpha[:3])
print(alpha[3:-2])
print(alpha[-3:4])
print(alpha[::2])
print(alpha[1::2])

```
The code's output is:
```s
bd
efg
abd
e
e
adf
beg
```

Now do your own experiments.

====================================================================
# The in and not in operators
`The in operator`

The `in` operator shouldn't surprise you when applied to strings - it simply `checks if its left argument (a string) can be found anywhere within the right argument (another string)`.

The result of the check is simply `True` or `False`.

Look at the example program below. This is how the `in` operator works:
```py
alphabet = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"

print("f" in alphabet)
print("F" in alphabet)
print("1" in alphabet)
print("ghi" in alphabet)
print("Xyz" in alphabet)
```

The example output is:
```s
True
False
False
True
False
output
```
`The not in operator`

As you probably suspect, the `not in` operator is also applicable here.

This is how it works:
```py
alphabet = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"

print("f" not in alphabet)
print("F" not in alphabet)
print("1" not in alphabet)
print("ghi" not in alphabet)
print("Xyz" not in alphabet)
```

The example output is:
```s
False
True
True
False
True
```

====================================================================
# Python strings are immutable
We've also told you that Python's `strings are immutable`. This is a very important feature. What does it mean?

This primarily means that the similarity of strings and lists is limited. Not everything you can do with a list may be done with a string.

The first important difference `doesn't allow you to use the del instruction to remove anything from a string`.

The example here won't work:
```py
alphabet = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
del alphabet[0]
```

The only thing you can do with `del` and a string is to `remove the string as a whole`. Try to do it.


Python strings `don't have the append() method` - you cannot expand them in any way.

The example below is erroneous:
```py
alphabet = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
alphabet.append("A")
```

with the absence of the `append()` method, `the insert() method is illegal`, too:
```py
alphabet = "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"
alphabet.insert(0, "A")
```

====================================================================
# Operations on strings: continued
Don't think that a string's immutability limits your ability to operate with strings.

The only consequence is that you have to remember about it, and implement your code in a slightly different way - look at the example code in the editor.
```py
alphabet = "bcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxy"

alphabet = "a" + alphabet
alphabet = alphabet + "z"

print(alphabet)
```

This form of code is fully acceptable, will work without bending Python's rules, and will bring the full Latin alphabet to your screen:
```s
abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
```

You may want to ask if `creating a new copy of a string each time you modify its contents worsens the effectiveness of the code`.

Yes, it does. A bit. It's not a problem at all, though.