# Operations on strings: min()
Now that you understand that strings are sequences, we can show you some less obvious sequence capabilities. We'll present them using strings, but don't forget that lists can adopt the same tricks, too.

Let's start with a function named `min()`.

The function `finds the minimum element of the sequence passed as an argument`. There is one condition - the sequence (string, list, it doesn't matter) `cannot be empty`, or else you'll get a ValueError exception.

The Example 1 program outputs:
```s
A
```

Note: It's an upper-case A. Why? Recall the ASCII table - which letters occupy first locations - upper or lower?

We've prepared two more examples to analyze: Examples `2 & 3`.
```py
# Demonstrating min() - Example 1:
print(min("aAbByYzZ"))


# Demonstrating min() - Examples 2 & 3:
t = 'The Knights Who Say "Ni!"'
print('[' + min(t) + ']')

t = [0, 1, 2]
print(min(t))
```

As you can see, they present more than just strings. The expected output looks as follows:
```s
[ ]
0
```
Note: we've used the square brackets to prevent the space from being overlooked on your screen.

============================================================
# Operations on strings: max()
Similarly, a function named `max() finds the maximum element of the sequence`.

Look at `Example 1` in the editor. The example program outputs:
```s
z
```
output

Note: It's a lower-case z.

Now let's see the `max()` function applied to the same data as previously. Look at `Examples 2 & 3` in the editor.
```py
# Demonstrating max() - Example 1:
print(max("aAbByYzZ"))


# Demonstrating max() - Examples 2 & 3:
t = 'The Knights Who Say "Ni!"'
print('[' + max(t) + ']')

t = [0, 1, 2]
print(max(t))
```

The expected output is:
```s
[y]
2
```

Carry out your own experiments.

=====================================================================
# Operations on strings: the index() method
The `index()` method (it's a method, not a function) `searches the sequence from the beginning, in order to find the first element of the value specified in its argument`.

Note: the element searched for must occur in the sequence - `its absence will cause a ValueError exception`.

The method returns the `index of the first occurrence of the argument` (which means that the lowest possible result is 0, while the highest is the length of argument decremented by 1).
```py
# Demonstrating the index() method:
print("aAbByYzZaA".index("b"))
print("aAbByYzZaA".index("Z"))
print("aAbByYzZaA".index("A"))
```

Therefore, the example in the editor outputs:
```s
2
7
1
```

=====================================================================
# Operations on strings: the list() function
The `list()` function `takes its argument (a string) and creates a new list containing all the string's characters, one per list element`.

Note: it's not strictly a string function - `list()` is able to create a new list from many other entities (e.g., from tuples and dictionaries).

Take a look at the code example in the editor.
```py
# Demonstrating the list() function:
print(list("abcabc"))

# Demonstrating the count() method:
print("abcabc".count("b"))
print('abcabc'.count("d"))
```

The example outputs:
```s
['a', 'b', 'c', 'a', 'b', 'c']
```

# Operations on strings: the count() method
The `count()` method `counts all occurrences of the element inside the sequence`. The absence of such elements doesn't cause any problems.

Look at the second example in the editor. Can you guess its output?

It is:
```s
2
0
```

Moreover, Python strings have a significant number of methods intended exclusively for processing characters. Don't expect them to work with any other collections. The complete list of is presented here: https://docs.python.org/3.4/library/stdtypes.html#string-methods.
We're going to show you the ones we consider the most useful.
