# Key takeaways

1. Python strings are `immutable sequences` and can be indexed, sliced, and iterated like any other sequence, as well as being subject to the `in` and `not in` operators. There are two kinds of strings in Python:

  - `one-line` strings, which cannot cross line boundaries – we denote them using either apostrophes (`'string'`) or quotes (`"string"`)
  - `multi-line` strings, which occupy more than one line of source code, delimited by trigraphs:

    '''
    string
    '''


    or

    """
    string
    """


2. The length of a string is determined by the `len()` function. The escape character (`\`) is not counted. For example:
```py
print(len("\n\n"))
```

outputs `2`.


3. Strings can be `concatenated` using the `+` operator, and `replicated` using the `*` operator. For example:
```py
asterisk = '*'
plus = "+"
decoration = (asterisk + plus) * 4 + asterisk
print(decoration)
```

outputs `*+*+*+*+*`.


4. The pair of functions `chr()` and `ord()` can be used to create a character using its codepoint, and to determine a codepoint corresponding to a character. Both of the following expressions are always true:
```py
chr(ord(character)) == character
ord(chr(codepoint)) == codepoint
```

5. Some other functions that can be applied to strings are:

  - `list()` – create a list consisting of all the string's characters;
  - `max()` – finds the character with the maximal codepoint;
  - `min()` – finds the character with the minimal codepoint.

6. The method named `index()` finds the index of a given substring inside the string.

## Exercise 1
What is the length of the following string assuming there is no whitespaces between the quotes?
```s
"""
"""
```
A: 1

## Exercise 2
What is the expected output of the following code?
```py
s = 'yesteryears'
the_list = list(s)
print(the_list[3:6])
```
A: `['t', 'e', 'r']`

## Exercise 3
What is the expected output of the following code?
```py
for ch in "abc":
    print(chr(ord(ch) + 1), end='')
```
A: bcd
