# The capitalize() method
Let's go through some standard Python string methods. We're going to go through them in alphabetical order - to be honest, any order has as many disadvantages as advantages, so the choice may as well be random.

The `capitalize()` method does exactly what it says - `it creates a new string filled with characters taken from the source string`, but it tries to modify them in the following way:

  - `if the first character inside the string is a letter` (note: the first character is an element with an index equal to 0, not just the first visible character), `it will be converted to upper-case`;
  - `all remaining letters from the string will be converted to lower-case`.

Don't forget that:

  - the original string (from which the method is invoked) is not changed in any way (a string's immutability must be obeyed without reservation)
  - the modified (capitalized in this case) string is returned as a result - if you don't use it in any way (assign it to a variable, or pass it to a function/method) it will disappear without a trace.

Note: methods don't have to be invoked from within variables only. They can be invoked directly from within string literals. We're going to use that convention regularly - it will simplify the examples, as the most important aspects will not disappear among unnecessary assignments.

Take a look at the example in the editor. Run it.
```py
# Demonstrating the capitalize() method:
print('aBcD'.capitalize())
```

This is what it prints:
```s
Abcd
```

Try some more advanced examples and test their output:
```py
print("Alpha".capitalize())
print('ALPHA'.capitalize())
print(' Alpha'.capitalize())
print('123'.capitalize())
print("αβγδ".capitalize())
```

=======================================================================
# The center() method
The one-parameter variant of the `center()` method makes a copy of the original string, trying to center it inside a field of a specified width.

The centering is actually done by `adding some spaces before and after the string`.

Don't expect this method to demonstrate any sophisticated skills. It's rather simple.

The example in the editor uses brackets to clearly show you where the centered string actually begins and terminates.
```py
# Demonstrating the center() method:
print('[' + 'alpha'.center(10) + ']')
```

Its output looks as follows:
```s
[  alpha   ]
```

If the target field's length is too small to fit the string, the original string is returned.

You can see the `center()` method in more examples here:
```py
print('[' + 'Beta'.center(2) + ']')
print('[' + 'Beta'.center(4) + ']')
print('[' + 'Beta'.center(6) + ']')
```

Run the snippets above and check what output they produce.

`The two-parameter variant of center() makes use of the character from the second argument, instead of a space`. Analyze the example below:
```py
print('[' + 'gamma'.center(20, '*') + ']')
```

This is why the output now looks like this:
```s
[*******gamma********]
```

Carry out more experiments.

=======================================================================
# The endswith() method
The `endswith()` method `checks if the given string ends with the specified argument and returns True or False`, depending on the check result.

Note: the substring must adhere to the string's last character - it cannot just be located somewhere near the end of the string.

Look at our example in the editor, analyze it, and run it. 
```py
# Demonstrating the endswith() method:
if "epsilon".endswith("on"):
    print("yes")
else:
    print("no")
```

It outputs:
```s
yes
```

You should now be able to predict the output of the snippet below:
```py
t = "zeta"
print(t.endswith("a"))
print(t.endswith("A"))
print(t.endswith("et"))
print(t.endswith("eta"))
```

Run the code to check your predictions.

=======================================================================
# The find() method
The `find()` method is similar to `index()`, which you already know - `it looks for a substring and returns the index of first occurrence of this substring`, but:

  - it's safer - it `doesn't generate an error for an argument containing a non-existent substring` (it returns `-1` then)
  - it `works with strings only` - don't try to apply it to any other sequence.

Look at the code in the editor. This is how you can use it.
```py
# Demonstrating the find() method:
print("Eta".find("ta"))
print("Eta".find("mma"))
```
The example prints:
```s
1
-1
```

Note: don't use `find()` if you only want to check if a single character occurs within a string - the `in` operator will be significantly faster.

Here is another example:
```py
t = 'theta'
print(t.find('eta'))
print(t.find('et'))
print(t.find('the'))
print(t.find('ha'))
```

Can you predict the output? Run it and check your predictions.

If you want to perform the find, not from the string's beginning, but `from any position`, you can use a two-parameter variant of the `find()` method. Look at the example:
```py
print('kappa'.find('a', 2))
```

The second argument `specifies the index at which the search will be started` (it doesn't have to fit inside the string).

Among the two a letters, only the second will be found. Run the snippet and check.


You can use the `find()` method to search for all the substring's occurrences, like here:
```py
the_text = """A variation of the ordinary lorem ipsum
text has been used in typesetting since the 1960s 
or earlier, when it was popularized by advertisements 
for Letraset transfer sheets. It was introduced to 
the Information Age in the mid-1980s by the Aldus Corporation, 
which employed it in graphics and word-processing templates
for its desktop publishing program PageMaker (from Wikipedia)"""

fnd = the_text.find('the')
while fnd != -1:
    print(fnd)
    fnd = the_text.find('the', fnd + 1)
```

The code prints the indices of all occurrences of the article the, and its output looks like this:
```s
15
80
198
221
238
```

There is also a `three-parameter mutation of the find() method` - the third argument `points to the first index which won't be taken into consideration during the search` (it's actually the upper limit of the search).

Look at our example below:
```py
print('kappa'.find('a', 1, 4))
print('kappa'.find('a', 2, 4))
```

The second argument specifies the index at which the search will be started (it doesn't have to fit inside the string).

Therefore, the modified example outputs:
```s
1
-1
```

(a cannot be found within the given search boundaries in the second `print()`.

===============================================================================
# The isalnum() method
The parameterless method named `isalnum() checks if the string contains only digits or alphabetical characters (letters), and returns True or False `according to the result.

Look at the example in the editor and run it.

Note: any string element that is not a digit or a letter causes the method to return `False`. An empty string does, too.
```py
# Demonstrating the isalnum() method:
print('lambda30'.isalnum())
print('lambda'.isalnum())
print('30'.isalnum())
print('@'.isalnum())
print('lambda_30'.isalnum())
print(''.isalnum())
```
The example output is:
```s
True
True
True
False
False
False
```

Three more intriguing examples are here:
```py
t = 'Six lambdas'
print(t.isalnum())

t = 'ΑβΓδ'
print(t.isalnum())

t = '20E1'
print(t.isalnum())
```

Run them and check their output.

Hint: the cause of the first result is a space - it's neither a digit nor a letter.

=================================================================================
# The isalpha() method
The `isalpha()` method is more specialized - it's interested in `letters only`.

```py
# Example 1: Demonstrating the isapha() method:
print("Moooo".isalpha())
print('Mu40'.isalpha())

# Example 2: Demonstrating the isdigit() method:
print('2018'.isdigit())
print("Year2019".isdigit())

```

Look at Example 1 - its output is:
```s
True
False
```

# The isdigit() method
In turn, the `isdigit()` method looks at `digits only` - anything else produces `False` as the result.

Look at Example 2 - its output is:
```s
True
False
```

Carry out more experiments.
