# The islower() method
The `islower()` method is a fussy variant of `isalpha()` - it accepts `lower-case letters only`.
```py
# Example 1: Demonstrating the islower() method:
print("Moooo".islower())
print('moooo'.islower())

# Example 2: Demonstrating the isspace() method:
print(' \n '.isspace())
print(" ".isspace())
print("mooo mooo mooo".isspace())

# Example 3: Demonstrating the isupper() method:
print("Moooo".isupper())
print('moooo'.isupper())
print('MOOOO'.isupper())
```

Look at Example 1 in the editor - it outputs:
```s
False
True
```

# The isspace() method
The `isspace()` method `identifies whitespaces only` - it disregards any other character (the result is `False` then).

Look at Example 2 in the editor - the output is:
```s
True
True
False
```

# The isupper() method
The `isupper()` method is the upper-case version of `islower()` - it concentrates on `upper-case letters only`.

Again, Look at the code in the editor - Example 3 produces the following output:
```s
False
False
True
```

========================================================================
# The join() method
The `join()` method is rather complicated, so let us guide you step by step thorough it:

  - as its name suggests, the method `performs a join` - it expects one argument as a list; it must be assured that all the list's elements are strings - the method will raise a TypeError exception otherwise;
  - all the list's elements will be `joined into one string` but...
  - ...the string from which the method has been invoked is `used as a separator`, put among the strings;
  - the newly created string is returned as a result.

Take a look at the example in the editor. Let's analyze it:
```py
# Demonstrating the join() method:
print(",".join(["omicron", "pi", "rho"]))
```
  - the `join()` method is invoked from within a string containing a comma (the string can be arbitrarily long, or it can be empty)
  - the `join`'s argument is a list containing three strings;
  - the method returns a new string.

Here it is:
```s
omicron,pi,rh
```

========================================================================
# The lower() method
The `lower()` method `makes a copy of a source string, replaces all upper-case letters with their lower-case counterparts`, and returns the string as the result. Again, the source string remains untouched.

If the string doesn't contain any upper-case characters, the method returns the original string.

Note: The `lower()` method doesn't take any parameters.

The example in the editor outputs:
```py
# Demonstrating the lower() method:
print("SiGmA=60".lower())
```
```s
sigma=60
```

As usual, carry out your own experiments.

=====================================================================
# The lstrip() method
The parameterless `lstrip()` method `returns a newly created string formed from the original one by removing all leading whitespaces`.

Analyze the example code in the editor.
```py
print("[" + " tau ".lstrip() + "]")
```
The brackets are not a part of the result - they only show the result's boundaries.

The example outputs:
```s
[tau ]
```

The `one-parameter lstrip()` method does the same as its parameterless version, but `removes all characters enlisted in its argument` (a string), not just whitespaces:
```py
print("www.cisco.com".lstrip("w."))
```

Brackets aren't needed here, as the output looks as follows:
```s
cisco.com
```

Can you guess the output of the snippet below? Think carefully. Run the code and check your predictions.
```py
print("pythoninstitute.org".lstrip(".org"))
```

Surprised? Leading characters, leading whitespaces. Again, experiment with your own examples.

=====================================================================
# The replace() method
The `two-parameter replace()` method `returns a copy of the original string in which all occurrences of the first argument have been replaced by the second argument`.

Look at the example code in the editor. Run it.
```py
# Demonstrating the replace() method:
print("www.netacad.com".replace("netacad.com", "pythoninstitute.org"))
print("This is it!".replace("is", "are"))
print("Apple juice".replace("juice", ""))
```
The example outputs:
```s
www.pythoninstitute.org
Thare are it!
Apple
```

If the second argument is an empty string, `replacing is actually removing` the first argument's string. What kind of magic happens if the first argument is an empty string?

The `three-parameter replace()` variant uses the third argument (a number) to `limit the number of replacements`.

Look at the modified example code below:
```py
print("This is it!".replace("is", "are", 1))
print("This is it!".replace("is", "are", 2))
```

Can you guess its output? Run the code and check your guesses.

=====================================================================
# The rfind() method
The one-, two-, and three-parameter methods named `rfind()` do nearly the same things as their counterparts (the ones devoid of the r prefix), but `start their searches from the end of the string`, not the beginning (hence the prefix r, for right).

Take a look at the example code in the editor and try to predict its output. Run the code to check if you were right.
```py
# Demonstrating the rfind() method:
print("tau tau tau".rfind("ta"))
print("tau tau tau".rfind("ta", 9))
print("tau tau tau".rfind("ta", 3, 9))
```
