# The rstrip() method
Two variants of the `rstrip()` method do nearly the same as `lstrips`, but `affect the opposite side of the string`.

Look at the code example in the editor. Can you guess its output? Run the code to check your guesses.
```py
# Demonstrating the rstrip() method:
print("[" + " upsilon ".rstrip() + "]")
print("cisco.com".rstrip(".com"))
```
As usual, we encourage you to experiment with your own examples.

======================================================================
# The split() method
The `split()` method does what it says - it `splits the string and builds a list of all detected substrings`.

The method `assumes that the substrings are delimited by whitespaces` - the spaces don't take part in the operation, and aren't copied into the resulting list.

If the string is empty, the resulting list is empty too.

Look at the code in the editor. The example produces the following output:
```py
# Demonstrating the split() method:
print("phi       chi\npsi".split())
```
```s
['phi', 'chi', 'psi']
```

Note: the reverse operation can be performed by the `join()` method.

=======================================================================
```py
# Demonstrating the startswith() method:
print("omega".startswith("meg"))
print("omega".startswith("om"))

print()

# Demonstrating the strip() method:
print("[" + "   aleph   ".strip() + "]")
```

# The startswith() method
The `startswith()` method is a mirror reflection of `endswith()` - it `checks if a given string starts with the specified substring`.

Look at the example in the editor. This is the result from it:

```s
False
True
```

# The strip() method
The `strip()` method combines the effects caused by `rstrip()` and `lstrip()` - it `makes a new string lacking all the leading and trailing whitespaces`.

Look at the second example in the editor. This is the result it returns:
```s
[aleph]
```

Now carry out your own experiments with the two methods.

=======================================================================
```py
# Demonstrating the swapcase() method:
print("I know that I know nothing.".swapcase())

print()

# Demonstrating the title() method:
print("I know that I know nothing. Part 1.".title())

print()

# Demonstrating the upper() method:
print("I know that I know nothing. Part 2.".upper())

```
# The swapcase() method
The `swapcase()` method `makes a new string by swapping the case of all letters within the source string`: lower-case characters become upper-case, and vice versa.

All other characters remain untouched.

Look at the first example in the editor. Can you guess the output? It won't look good, but you must see it:
```s
i KNOW THAT i KNOW NOTHING.
```

# The title() method
The `title()` method performs a somewhat similar function - it `changes every word's first letter to upper-case, turning all other ones to lower-case`.

Look at the second example in the editor. Can you guess its output? This is the result:
```s
I Know That I Know Nothing. Part 1.
```

# The upper() method
Last but not least, the `upper()` method `makes a copy of the source string, replaces all lower-case letters with their upper-case counterparts`, and returns the string as the result.

Look at the third example in the editor. It outputs:
```s
I KNOW THAT I KNOW NOTHING. PART 2.
```

Hoooray! We've made it to the end of this section. Are you surprised with any of the string methods we've discussed so far? Take a couple of minutes to review them, and let's move on to the next part of the course where we'll show you what great things we can do with strings.