# Key takeaways

1. Some of the methods offered by strings are:

  - `capitalize()` – changes all string letters to capitals;
  - `center()` – centers the string inside the field of a known length;
  - `count()` – counts the occurrences of a given character;
  - `join()` – joins all items of a tuple/list into one string;
  - `lower()` – converts all the string's letters into lower-case letters;
  - `lstrip()` – removes the white characters from the beginning of the string;
  - `replace()` – replaces a given substring with another;
  - `rfind()` – finds a substring starting from the end of the string;
  - `rstrip()` – removes the trailing white spaces from the end of the string;
  - `split()` – splits the string into a substring using a given delimiter;
  - `strip()` – removes the leading and trailing white spaces;
  - `swapcase()` – swaps the letters' cases (lower to upper and vice versa)
  - `title()` – makes the first letter in each word upper-case;
  - `upper()` – converts all the string's letter into upper-case letters.

2. String content can be determined using the following methods (all of them return Boolean values):

  - `endswith()` – does the string end with a given substring?
  - `isalnum()` – does the string consist only of letters and digits?
  - `isalpha()` – does the string consist only of letters?
  - `islower()` – does the string consists only of lower-case letters?
  - `isspace()` – does the string consists only of white spaces?
  - `isupper()` – does the string consists only of upper-case letters?
  - `startswith()` – does the string begin with a given substring?

## Exercise 1
What is the expected output of the following code?
```py
for ch in "abc123XYX":
    if ch.isupper():
        print(ch.lower(), end='')
    elif ch.islower():
        print(ch.upper(), end='')
    else:
        print(ch, end='')
```
A: ABC123xyz

## Exercise 2
What is the expected output of the following code?
```py
s1 = 'Where are the snows of yesteryear?'
s2 = s1.split()
print(s2[-2])
```
A: of

## Exercise 3
What is the expected output of the following code?
```py
the_list = ['Where', 'are', 'the', 'snows?']
s = '*'.join(the_list)
print(s)
```
A: Where*are*the*snows?

## Exercise 4
What is the expected output of the following code?
```py
s = 'It is either easy or impossible'
s = s.replace('easy', 'hard').replace('im', '')
print(s)
```
A: It is either hard or possible
