# Comparing strings
Python's strings `can be compared using the same set of operators` which are in use in relation to numbers.

Take a look at these operators - they can all compare strings, too:

  - `==`
  - `!=`
  - `>`
  - `>=`
  - `<`
  - `<=`

There is one "but" - the results of such comparisons may sometimes be a bit surprising. Don't forget that Python is not aware (it cannot be in any way) of subtle linguistic issues - it just `compares code point values`, character by character.

The results you get from such an operation are sometimes astonishing. Let's start with the simplest cases.

Two strings are equal when they consist of the same characters in the same order. By the same fashion, two strings are not equal when they don't consist of the same characters in the same order.

Both comparisons give `True` as a result:
```py
'alpha' == 'alpha'
'alpha' != 'Alpha'
```

The final relation between strings is determined by `comparing the first different character in both strings` (keep ASCII/UNICODE code points in mind at all times.)

When you compare two strings of different lengths and the shorter one is identical to the longer one's beginning, the `longer string is considered greater`.

Just like here:
```py
'alpha' < 'alphabet'
```

The relation is `True`.

String comparison is always case-sensitive (`upper-case letters are taken as lesser than lower-case`).

The expression is `True`:
```py
'beta' > 'Beta'
```

============================================================================
# Comparing strings: continued
Even `if a string contains digits only, it's still not a number`. It's interpreted as-is, like any other regular string, and its (potential) numerical aspect is not taken into consideration in any way.

Look at the examples:
```py
'10' == '010'
'10' > '010'
'10' > '8'
'20' < '8'
'20' < '80'
```

They produce the following results:
```s
False
True
False
True
True
```

`Comparing strings against numbers is generally a bad idea`.

The only comparisons you can perform with impunity are these symbolized by the `==` and `!=` operators. The former always gives `False`, while the latter always produces `True`.

Using any of the remaining comparison operators will raise a TypeError exception.

Let's check it:
```py
'10' == 10
'10' != 10
'10' == 1
'10' != 1
'10' > 10
```

The results in this case are:
```s
False
True
False
True
TypeError exception
```

Run all the examples, and carry out more experiments.

