# Sorting
Comparing is closely related to sorting (or rather, sorting is in fact a very sophisticated case of comparing).

This is a good opportunity to show you two possible ways to `sort lists containing strings`. Such an operation is very common in the real world - any time you see a list of names, goods, titles, or cities, you expect them to be sorted.

Let's assume that you want to sort the following list:
```py
 greek = ['omega', 'alpha', 'pi', 'gamma']
```

In general, Python offers two different ways to sort lists.

The first is implemented as a `function named sorted()`.

The function takes one argument (a list) and `returns a new list`, filled with the sorted argument's elements. (Note: this description is a bit simplified compared to the actual implementation - we'll discuss it later.)

The original list remains untouched.
```py
# Demonstrating the sorted() function:
first_greek = ['omega', 'alpha', 'pi', 'gamma']
first_greek_2 = sorted(first_greek)

print(first_greek)
print(first_greek_2)

print()

# Demonstrating the sort() method:
second_greek = ['omega', 'alpha', 'pi', 'gamma']
print(second_greek)

second_greek.sort()
print(second_greek)
```

Look at the code in the editor, and run it. The snippet produces the following output:
```s
['omega', 'alpha', 'pi', 'gamma']
['alpha', 'gamma', 'omega', 'pi']
```

The second method affects the list itself - `no new list is created`. Ordering is performed in situ by the method named `sort()`.

The output hasn't changed:
```s
['omega', 'alpha', 'pi', 'gamma']
['alpha', 'gamma', 'omega', 'pi']
```

If you need an order other than non-descending, you have to convince the function/method to change its default behaviors. We'll discuss it soon.

=====================================================================
# Strings vs. numbers
There are two additional issues that should be discussed here: `how to convert a number (an integer or a float) into a string, and vice versa`. It may be necessary to perform such a transformation. Moreover, it's a routine way to process input/output data.

The number-string conversion is simple, as it is always possible. It's done by a function named `str()`.

Just like here:
```py
itg = 13
flt = 1.3
si = str(itg)
sf = str(flt)

print(si + ' ' + sf)
```

The code outputs:
```s
13 1.3
```

The reverse transformation (string-number) is possible when and only when the string represents a valid number. If the condition is not met, expect a ValueError exception.

Use the `int()` function if you want to get an integer, and `float()` if you need a floating-point value.

Just like here:
```py
si = '13'
sf = '1.3'
itg = int(si)
flt = float(sf)

print(itg + flt)
```

This is what you'll see in the console:
```s
14.3
```

In the next section, we're going to show you some simple programs that process strings.

