# Errors, failures, and other plagues
`Anything that can go wrong, will go wrong.`

This is Murphy's law, and it works everywhere and always. Your code's execution can go wrong, too. If it can, it will.

Look the code in the editor. There are at least two possible ways it can "go wrong". Can you see them?
```py
import math

x = float(input("Enter x: "))
y = math.sqrt(x)

print("The square root of", x, "equals to", y)
```
  - As a user is able to enter a completely arbitrary string of characters, `there is no guarantee that the string can be converted into a float value` - this is the first vulnerability of the code;
  - the second is that the `sqrt() function fails if it gets a negative argument`.

You may get one of the following error messages.

Something like this:
```s
Enter x: Abracadabra

Traceback (most recent call last):

  File "sqrt.py", line 3, in <module>

    x = float(input("Enter x: "))

ValueError: could not convert string to float: 'Abracadabra'
```

Or something like this:
```s
Enter x: -1

Traceback (most recent call last):

  File "sqrt.py", line 4, in <module>

    y = math.sqrt(x)

ValueError: math domain error
```

Can you protect yourself from such surprises? Of course you can. Moreover, you have to do it in order to be considered a good programmer.

====================================================================
# Exceptions
Each time your code tries to do something wrong/foolish/irresponsible/crazy/unenforceable, Python does two things:

  - it `stops your program`;
  - it creates a special kind of data, called an exception.

Both of these activities are called `raising an exception`. We can say that Python always raises an `exception (or that an exception has been raised)` when it has no idea what to do with your code.

What happens next?

  - the raised exception expects somebody or something to notice it and take care of it;
  - if nothing happens to take care of the raised exception, the program will be `forcibly terminated`, and you will see an `error message` sent to the console by Python;
  - otherwise, if the exception is taken care of and `handled` properly, the suspended program can be resumed and its execution can continue.

Python provides effective tools that allow you to `observe exceptions, identify them and handle them` efficiently. This is possible due to the fact that all potential exceptions have their unambiguous names, so you can categorize them and react appropriately.

You know some exception names already. Take a look at the following diagnostic message:
```s
ValueError: math domain error 
```

The word highlighted above is just the `exception name`. Let's get familiar with some other exceptions.

====================================================================
# Exceptions: continued
Look at the code in the editor. Run the (obviously incorrect) program.
```py
value = 1
value /= 0
```
You will see the following message in reply:
```s
Traceback (most recent call last):
File "div.py", line 2, in 
value /= 0
ZeroDivisionError: division by zero
```

This exception error is called `ZeroDivisionError`.

====================================================================
# Exceptions: continued
Look at the code in the editor. What will happen when you run it? Check.
```py
my_list = []
x = my_list[0]
```

You will see the following message in reply:
```s
Traceback (most recent call last):
File "lst.py", line 2, in 
x = list[0]
IndexError: list index out of range
```

This is the `IndexError`.

====================================================================
# Exceptions: continued
How do you `handle` exceptions? The word `try` is key to the solution.

What's more, it's a keyword, too.

The recipe for success is as follows:

  - first, you have to `try to do something`;
  - next, you have to `check whether everything went well`.

But wouldn't it be better to check all circumstances first and then do something only if it's safe?

Just like the example in the editor.
```py
first_number = int(input("Enter the first number: "))
second_number = int(input("Enter the second number: "))

if second_number != 0:
    print(first_number / second_number)
else:
    print("This operation cannot be done.")

print("THE END.")
```

Admittedly, this way may seem to be the most natural and understandable, but in reality, this method doesn't make programming any easier. All these checks can make `your code bloated and illegible`.

Python prefers a completely different approach.

====================================================================
# Exceptions: continued
Look at the code in the editor. This is the favorite Python approach.

Note:

  - the `try` keyword `begins a block of the code` which may or may not be performing correctly;
  - next, Python tries to perform the risky action; if it fails, an exception is raised and Python starts to look for a solution;
  - the `except` keyword starts a piece of code which will be `executed if anything inside the try block goes wrong` - if an exception is raised inside a previous `try` block, `it will fail here`, so the code located after the except keyword should provide an `adequate reaction` to the raised exception;
  - returning to the previous nesting level ends the `try-except` section.

Run the code and test its behavior.
```py
first_number = int(input("Enter the first number: "))
second_number = int(input("Enter the second number: "))

try:
    print(first_number / second_number)
except:
    print("This operation cannot be done.")

print("THE END.")
```

Let's summarize this:
```py
try:
    :
    :
except:
    :
    :
```

  - in the first step, Python tries to perform all instructions placed between the `try:` and `except:` statements;
  - if nothing is wrong with the execution and all instructions are performed successfully, the execution jumps to the point after the last line of the `except:` block, and the block's execution is considered complete;
  - if anything goes wrong inside the `try:` and `except:` block, the execution immediately jumps out of the block and into the first instruction located after the `except:` keyword; this means that some of the instructions from the block may be silently omitted.

