# Exceptions: continued
Look at the code in the editor. It will help you understand this mechanism.
```py
try:
    print("1")
    x = 1 / 0
    print("2")
except:
    print("Oh dear, something went wrong...")

print("3")
```
This is the output it produces:
```s
1
Oh dear, something went wrong...
3
```

Note: the `print("2")` instruction was lost in the process.

===============================================================
# Exceptions: continued
This approach has one important disadvantage - if there is a possibility that more than one exception may skip into an `except:` branch, you may have `trouble figuring out what actually happened`.

Just like in our code in the editor. Run it and see what happens.
```py
try:
    x = int(input("Enter a number: "))
    y = 1 / x
except:
    print("Oh dear, something went wrong...")

print("THE END.")
```

The message: `Oh dear, something went wrong...` appearing in the console says nothing about the reason, while there are two possible causes of the exception:

  - non-integer data entered by the user;
  - an integer value equal to `0` assigned to the `x` variable.

Technically, there are two ways to solve the issue:

  - build two consecutive try-except blocks, one for each possible exception reason (easy, but will cause unfavorable code growth)
  - use a more advanced variant of the instruction.

It looks like this:
```py
try:
    :
except exc1:
    :
except exc2:
    :
except:
    :
```

This is how it works:

  - if the `try` branch raises the `exc1` exception, it will be handled by the `except exc1:` block;
  - similarly, if the `try` branch raises the `exc2` exception, it will be handled by the `except exc2:` block;
  - if the `try` branch raises any other exception, it will be handled by the unnamed `except` block.

Let's move on to the next part of the course and see it in action.

===============================================================
# Exceptions: continued
Look at the code in the editor. Our solution is there.
```py
try:
    x = int(input("Enter a number: "))
    y = 1 / x
    print(y)
except ZeroDivisionError:
    print("You cannot divide by zero, sorry.")
except ValueError:
    print("You must enter an integer value.")
except:
    print("Oh dear, something went wrong...")

print("THE END.")
```
The code, when run, produces one of the following four variants of output:

  - if you enter a valid, non-zero integer value (e.g., 5) it says:
    ```s
    0.2
    THE END.
    ```

  - if you enter 0, it says:
    ```s
    You cannot divide by zero, sorry.
    THE END.
    ```

  - if you enter any non-integer string, you see:
    ```s
    You must enter an integer value.
    THE END.
    ```

  - (locally on your machine) if you press Ctrl-C while the program is waiting for the user's input (which causes an exception named KeyboardInterrupt), the program says:
    ```s
    Oh dear, something went wrong...
    THE END.
    ```

===============================================================
# Exceptions: continued
Don't forget that:

  - the `except` branches are searched in the same order in which they appear in the code;
  - you must not use more than one except branch with a certain exception name;
  - the number of different `except` branches is arbitrary - the only condition is that if you use `try`, you must put at least one `except` (named or not) after it;
  - the `except` keyword must not be used without a preceding `try`;
  - if any of the `except` branches is executed, no other branches will be visited;
  - if none of the specified `except` branches matches the raised exception, the exception remains unhandled (we'll discuss it soon)
  - if an unnamed `except` branch exists (one without an exception name), it has to be specified as the last.
```py
try:
    :
except exc1:
    :
except exc2:
    :
except:
    :
```

Let's continue the experiments now.

Look at the code in the editor. We've modified the previous program - we've removed the `ZeroDivisionError` branch.
```py
try:
    x = int(input("Enter a number: "))
    y = 1 / x
    print(y)
except ValueError:
    print("You must enter an integer value.")
except:
    print("Oh dear, something went wrong...")

print("THE END.")
```

What happens now if the user enters `0` as an input?

As there are `no dedicated branches` for division by zero, the raised exception falls into the `general (unnamed) branch`; this means that in this case, the program will say:
```s
Oh dear, something went wrong...
THE END.
```

Try it yourself. Run the program.

===============================================================
# Exceptions: continued
Let's spoil the code once again.

Look at the program in the editor. This time, we've removed the unnamed branch.
```py
try:
    x = int(input("Enter a number: "))
    y = 1 / x
    print(y)
except ValueError:
    print("You must enter an integer value.")

print("THE END.")
```
The user enters `0` once again and:

  - the exception raised won't be handled by `ValueError` - it has nothing to do with it;
  - as there's no other branch, you should to see this message:
    ```s
    Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "exc.py", line 3, in 
    y = 1 / x
    ZeroDivisionError: division by zero
    ```

You've learned a lot about exception handling in Python. In the next section, we will focus on Python built-in exceptions and their hierarchies.