# Exceptions: continued
The `raise` instruction raises the specified exception named `exc` as if it was raised in a normal (natural) way:
```py
raise exc
```

Note: `raise` is a keyword.

The instruction enables you to:

  - `simulate raising actual exceptions` (e.g., to test your handling strategy)
  - partially `handle an exception` and make another part of the code responsible for completing the handling (separation of concerns).

Look at the code in the editor. This is how you can use it in practice.
```py
def bad_fun(n):
    raise ZeroDivisionError


try:
    bad_fun(0)
except ArithmeticError:
    print("What happened? An error?")

print("THE END.")
```

The program's output remains unchanged.

In this way, you can `test your exception handling routine` without forcing the code to do stupid things.

======================================================================
# Exceptions: continued
The `raise` instruction may also be utilized in the following way (note the absence of the exception's name):
```s
raise
```

There is one serious restriction: this kind of `raise` instruction may be used `inside the except branch` only; using it in any other context causes an error.

The instruction will immediately re-raise the same exception as currently handled.

Thanks to this, you can distribute the exception handling among different parts of the code.

Look at the code in the editor. Run it - we'll see it in action.
```py
def bad_fun(n):
    try:
        return n / 0
    except:
        print("I did it again!")
        raise


try:
    bad_fun(0)
except ArithmeticError:
    print("I see!")

print("THE END.")
```

The ZeroDivisionError is raised twice:

  - first, inside the `try` part of the code (this is caused by actual zero division)
  - second, inside the `except` part by the `raise` instruction.

In effect, the code outputs:
```s
I did it again!
I see!
THE END.
```

===================================================================
# Exceptions: continued
Now is a good moment to show you another Python instruction, named `assert`. This is a keyword.
```s
assert expression
```

How does it work?

  - It evaluates the expression;
  - if the expression evaluates to `True`, or a non-zero numerical value, or a non-empty string, or any other value different than `None`, it won't do anything else;
  - otherwise, it automatically and immediately raises an exception named AssertionError (in this case, we say that the assertion has failed)

How it can be used?

  - you may want to put it into your code where you want to be `absolutely safe from evidently wrong data`, and where you aren't absolutely sure that the data has been carefully examined before (e.g., inside a function used by someone else)
  - raising an AssertionError exception secures your code from producing invalid results, and clearly shows the nature of the failure;
  - `assertions don't supersede exceptions or validate the data` - they are their supplements.

If exceptions and data validation are like careful driving, assertion can play the role of an airbag.

Let's see the `assert` instruction in action. Look at the code in the editor. Run it.
```py
import math

x = float(input("Enter a number: "))
assert x >= 0.0

x = math.sqrt(x)

print(x)
```

The program runs flawlessly if you enter a valid numerical value greater than or equal to zero; otherwise, it stops and emits the following message:
```s
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File ".main.py", line 4, in 
    assert x >= 0.0
AssertionError
```