# Course syllabus: Python Essentials 1 (PE1)
## PE1 Module 1 - Introduction to Python and Computer Programming
  - Python as a modern, universal and growing programming language;
  - Python versions and language development;
  - Brief review of tools and environments needed to start programming in Python.

## PE1 Module 2 - Data Types, Variables, Basic Input-Output Operations, Basic Operators
  - How to write and run the very first Python program;
  - Python literals;
  - Python operators and expressions;
  - Variables – naming and using;
  - Basic input/output operations in Python.

## PE1 Module 3 - Boolean Values, Conditional Execution, Loops, Lists and List Processing, Logical and Bitwise Operations
  - Boolean data type;
  - Relational operators in Python;
  - Decision-making in Python: if, if-else, if-elif-else;
  - Repeating code execution using loops: while and for;
  - Logic and bit-wise operations in Python;
  - Lists in Python: constructing, indexing, slicing and content manipulation;
  - How to sort a list using a bubble-sort algorithm;
  - Multidimensional lists and their applications.

## PE1 Module 4 - Functions, Tuples, Dictionaries, and Data Processing
  - Code structuring and the concept of functions;
  - Function invocation and returning a result from a function;
  - Name scopes and variable shadowing;
  - Tuples – purpose, constructing and using;
  - Dictionaries – purpose, constructing and using.

## Python Essentials 1 - Summary Test
  - PE1 Modules 1-4.

==========================================================================================
# Course syllabus: Python Essentials 2 (PE2)
## PE2 Module 1 - Modules, Packages and PIP
  - What is module and why do we need it?
  - Importing and using modules;
  - Review of selected useful Python modules;
  - What is a package and how it differs from a module?
  - Constructing and using packages;
  - PIP – Swiss army knife for package maintenance.

## PE2 Module 2 - Exceptions, Strings, String and List Methods
  - Characters, strings and coding standards;
  - Strings vs. lists – similarities and differences;
  - Lists methods;
  - String methods;
  - Python's way of handling runtime errors;
  - Controlling the flow of errors using try and except;
  - The hierarchy of exceptions.

## PE2 Module 3 - Object-Oriented Programming in Python (OOP)
  - Basic concepts of object-oriented programming;
  - From procedural to object approach – motivations and benefits;
  - Classes, objects, properties and methods;
  - Inheritance and polymorphism;
  - Exception as an object.

## PE2 Module 4 - Miscellaneous
  - Generators, iterators and closures;
  - Working with file-system, directory tree and files;
  - Selected Python Standard Library modules (os, datetime, time, and calendar).

## Python Essentials 2 - Summary Test
  - PE2 Modules 1-4.

## Python Essentials - Final Test
  - PE1 Modules 1-4;
  - PE2 Modules 1-4;
  - score 70% or more to be eligible for a 50% discount voucher (PCAP - Certified Associate in Python Programming certification exam).