# The print() function
Look at the line of code below:
```
print("Hello, World!")
```

The word `print` that you can see here is a `function name`. That doesn't mean that wherever the word appears it is always a function name. The meaning of the word comes from the context in which the word has been used.

You've probably encountered the term function many times before, during math classes. You can probably also list several names of mathematical functions, like sine or log.

Python functions, however, are more flexible, and can contain more content than their mathematical siblings.

A function (in this context) is a separate part of the computer code able to:

  - `cause some effect` (e.g., send text to the terminal, create a file, draw an image, play a sound, etc.); this is something completely unheard of in the world of mathematics;
  - `evaluate a value` (e.g., the square root of a value or the length of a given text) and `return it as the function's result`; this is what makes Python functions the relatives of mathematical concepts.

Moreover, many of Python functions can do the above two things together.

Where do the functions come from?

  - They may come `from Python itself`; the print function is one of this kind; such a function is an added value received together with Python and its environment (it is `built-in`); you don't have to do anything special (e.g., ask anyone for anything) if you want to make use of it;
  - they may come from one or more of Python's add-ons named `modules`; some of the modules come with Python, others may require separate installation - whatever the case, they all need to be explicitly connected with your code (we'll show you how to do that soon);
  - you can `write them yourself`, placing as many functions as you want and need inside your program to make it simpler, clearer and more elegant.
The name of the function should be `significant` (the name of the print function is self-evident).

Of course, if you're going to make use of any already existing function, you have no influence on its name, but when you start writing your own functions, you should consider carefully your choice of names.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function
As we said before, a function may have:

  - an effect;
  - a result.

There's also a third, very important, function component - the `argument`(s).

Mathematical functions usually take one argument, e.g., sin(x) takes an x, which is the measure of an angle.

Python functions, on the other hand, are more versatile. Depending on the individual needs, they may accept any number of arguments - as many as necessary to perform their tasks. Note: any number includes zero - some Python functions don't need any argument.
```
print("Hello, World!")
```
In spite of the number of needed/provided arguments, Python functions strongly demand the presence of `a pair of parentheses` - opening and closing ones, respectively.

If you want to deliver one or more arguments to a function, you place them `inside the parentheses`. If you're going to use a function which doesn't take any argument, you still have to have the parentheses.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Note: to distinguish ordinary words from function names, place `a pair of empty parentheses` after their names, even if the corresponding function wants one or more arguments. This is a standard convention.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The function we're talking about here is `print()`.

Does the `print()` function in our example have any arguments?

Of course it does, but what are they?

====================================================================================================
# The print() function
The only argument delivered to the `print()` function in this example is a `string`:
```
print("Hello, World!")
```

As you can see, the `string is delimited with quotes` - in fact, the quotes make the string - they cut out a part of the code and assign a different meaning to it.

You can imagine that the quotes say something like: the text between us is not code. It isn't intended to be executed, and you should take it as is.

Almost anything you put inside the quotes will be taken literally, not as code, but as `data`. Try to play with this particular string - modify it, enter some new content, delete some of the existing content.

There's more than one way to specify a string inside Python's code, but for now, though, this one is enough.
So far, you have learned about two important parts of the code: the function and the string. We've talked about them in terms of syntax, but now it's time to discuss them in terms of semantics.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function
The function name (`print` in this case) along with the parentheses and argument(s), forms the `function invocation`.

We'll discuss this in more depth soon, but we should just shed a little light on it right now.
```
print("Hello, World!")
```

What happens when Python encounters an invocation like this one below?
```
function_name(argument)
```

Let's see:

  - First, Python checks if the name specified is `legal` (it browses its internal data in order to find an existing function of the name; if this search fails, Python aborts the code);
  - second, Python checks if the function's requirements for the number of arguments `allows you to invoke` the function in this way (e.g., if a specific function demands exactly two arguments, any invocation delivering only one argument will be considered erroneous, and will abort the code's execution);
  - third, Python `leaves your code for a moment` and jumps into the function you want to invoke; of course, it takes your argument(s) too and passes it/them to the function;
  - fourth, the function `executes its code`, causes the desired effect (if any), evaluates the desired result(s) (if any) and finishes its task;
  - finally, Python `returns to your code` (to the place just after the invocation) and resumes its execution.
