# Key takeaways
1. A `variable` is a named location reserved to store values in the memory. A variable is created or initialized automatically when you assign a value to it for the first time. (2.1.4.1)

2. Each variable must have a unique name - an `identifier`. A legal identifier name must be a non-empty sequence of characters, must begin with the underscore(`_`), or a letter, and it cannot be a Python keyword. The first character may be followed by underscores, letters, and digits. Identifiers in Python are case-sensitive. (2.1.4.1)

3. Python is a `dynamically-typed` language, which means you don't need to declare variables in it. (2.1.4.3) To assign values to variables, you can use a simple assignment operator in the form of the equal (`=`) sign, i.e., `var = 1`.

4. You can also use `compound assignment operators` (shortcut operators) to modify values assigned to variables, e.g., `var += 1`, or `var /= 5 * 2`. (2.1.4.8)

5. You can assign new values to already existing variables using the assignment operator or one of the compound operators, e.g.: (2.1.4.5)
```python
var = 2
print(var)

var = 3
print(var)

var += 1
print(var)
```

6. You can combine text and variables using the `+` operator, and use the `print()` function to output strings and variables, e.g.: (2.1.4.4)
```python
var = "007"
print("Agent " + var)
```
## Exercise 1
Q: What is the output of the following snippet?
```python
var = 2
var = 3
print(var)
```
A: 3

## Exercise 2
Q: Which of the following variable names are illegal in Python?
```python
my_var
m
101
averylongvariablename
m101
m 101
Del
del
```
A: my_var
   m
   101 # incorrect (starts with a digit)
   averylongvariablename
   m101
   m 101 # incorrect (contains a space)
   Del
   del # incorrect (is a keyword)

## Exercise 3
Q: What is the output of the following snippet?
```python
a = '1'
b = "1"
print(a + b)
```
A: 11

# Exercise 4
Q: What is the output of the following snippet?
```python
a = 6
b = 3
a /= 2 * b
print(a)
```
A: `1.0`
   2 * b = 6
   a = 6 → 6 / 6 = 1.0