# LAB
# Estimated time
5 minutes

# Level of difficulty
Very Easy

# Objectives
  - becoming familiar with the concept of comments in Python;
  - using and not using comments;
  - replacing comments with code;
  - experimenting with Python code.

# Scenario
The code in the editor contains comments. Try to improve it: add or remove comments where you find it appropriate (yes, sometimes removing a comment can make the code more readable), and change variable names where you think this will improve code comprehension.

## NOTE

Comments are very important. They are used not only to make your programs `easier to understand`, but also to `disable those pieces of code that are currently not needed` (e.g., when you need to test some parts of your code only, and ignore other). Good programmers `describe` each important piece of code, and `give self-commenting` names to variables, as sometimes it is simply much better to leave information in the code.

It's good to use `readable` variable names, and sometimes it's better to `divide your code` into named pieces (e.g., functions). In some situations, it's a good idea to write the steps of computations in a clearer way.
```python
#this program computes the number of seconds in a given number of hours
# this program has been written two days ago

a = 2 # number of hours
seconds = 3600 # number of seconds in 1 hour

print("Hours: ", a) #printing the number of hours
# print("Seconds in Hours: ", a * seconds) # printing the number of seconds in a given number of hours

#here we should also print "Goodbye", but a programmer didn't have time to write any code
#this is the end of the program that computes the number of seconds in 3 hour
```
One more thing: it may happen that a comment contains a wrong or incorrect piece of information - you should never do that on purpose!

