1. Q: What is the output of the following snippet if the lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?
   x = int(input())
   y = int(input())

   y = y / x
   print(y)
  A : `8.0`

2. Q: What is the output of the following snippet?
   y = 2 + 3 * 5
   print(Y)
  A : `Error` / `the snippet will couse an execution error`

3. Q: Waht is the output of the following snippet?
   z = y = x = 1
   print(x, y , z, sep='*')
  A: `1*1*1`

4. Q: The print() function can output values of:
  T: `any number of arguments (including zero)`

5. Q: The `0o` prefix means that the number after it is denoted as:
  A: `octal`

6. Q: What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?
   x = int(input())
   y = int(input())
   print(x + y)
  A : `6`

7. Q: What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?
   x = input()
   y = input()
   print(x + y) #output string
  A : `24`

8. Q: What is the output of the following snippet?
   x = 1
   y = 2
   print (x, y)
  A : `1 2` 

9. Q: What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 3 and 6 respectively?
   x = input()
   y = int(input())
   print (x * y)
  A: `333333`

10. Q: The meaning of the `keyword parameter` is determined by:
  T: `the argument's name specified along with its value`

11. Q: Which of the following variable names are illegal? (Select two answers)
  - true
  - True
  - and
  - TRUE
  A: `True & and`

12. Q: Which of the following statements are true? (Select two answers)
  1. The result of the / operator is always an interger value
  2. The ** operator uses right-sided binding
  3. The right argument of the % operator cannot be zero
  4. Addition precendes multiplication
  A: `1 & 3`

13. Q: What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 11 and 4 respectively?
   x = int(input())
   y = int(input())
   y = y % x
   print (y)
  A: `4`

14. Q: Left-sided binding determines that the result of the following expression:
   `1 // 2 * 3` is equal to:
  A: `0`

15. Q: The \n digraph forces the print() function to:
  A: `break the output line`

16. Q: The value `tweenty points twelve times ten raised to the power of eight` should be written as:
  T: `20.12E8`

17. Q: What is the output of the following snippet if the user enters two lines containing 2 and 4 respectively?
   x = int(input())
   y = int(input())
   y = y // x
   print (y)
  A: `2.0`

18. Q: The result of the following division: 1 / 1
  A: `is equal to 1.0`

19. Q: What is the output of the following snippet?
   x = 1 / 2 + 3 // 3 + 4 ** 2
  A: `17.5`

20. Q: The ** operator 
  T: `performs exponentiation`