# The print() function
Three important questions have to be answered as soon as possible:

1. What is the effect the `print()` function causes?

The effect is very useful and very spectacular. The function:

  - takes its arguments (it may accept more than one argument and may also accept less than one argument)
  - converts them into human-readable form if needed (as you may suspect, strings don't require this action, as the string is already readable)
  - and `sends the resulting data to the output device` (usually the console); in other words, anything you put into the `print()` function will appear on your screen.

No wonder then, that from now on, you'll utilize `print()` very intensively to see the results of your operations and evaluations.

2. What arguments does `print()` expect?
Any. We'll show you soon that `print()` is able to operate with virtually all types of data offered by Python. Strings, numbers, characters, logical values, objects - any of these may be successfully passed to `print()`.


3. What value does the `print()` function return?
None. Its effect is enough.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - instructions
You have already seen a computer program that contains one function invocation. A function invocation is one of many possible kinds of Python `instructions`.

Of course, any complex program usually contains many more instructions than one. The question is: how do you couple more than one instruction into the Python code?

Python's syntax is quite specific in this area. Unlike most programming languages, Python requires that `there cannot be more than one instruction in a line`.

A line can be empty (i.e., it may contain no instruction at all) but it must not contain two, three or more instructions. This is strictly prohibited.

Note: Python makes one exception to this rule - it allows one instruction to spread across more than one line (which may be helpful when your code contains complex constructions).

Let's expand the code a bit, you can see it in the editor. Run it and note what you see in the console.
```scripts
print("The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.")
print("Down came the rain and washed the spider out.")
```
Your Python console should now look like this:
```
The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.
Down came the rain and washed the spider out.
output
```

This is a good opportunity to make some observations:
  - the program `invokes the print() function twice`, and you can see two separate lines in the console - this means that `print()` begins its output from a new line each time it starts its execution; you can change this behavior, but you can also use it to your advantage;
  - each `print()` invocation contains a different string, as its argument and the console content reflects it - this means that `the instructions in the code are executed in the same order` in which they have been placed in the source file; no next instruction is executed until the previous one is completed (there are some exceptions to this rule, but you can ignore them for now)

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - instructions
We've changed the example a bit - we've added one `empty print()` function invocation. We call it empty because we haven't delivered any arguments to the function.

You can see it in the editor window. Run the code.
```scripts
print("The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.")
print()
print("Down came the rain and washed the spider out.")
```
What happens?

If everything goes right, you should see something like this:
```
The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.

Down came the rain and washed the spider out.
output
```
As you can see, the empty `print()` invocation is not as empty as you may have expected - it does output an empty line, or (this interpretation is also correct) its output is just a newline.

This is not the only way to produce a `newline` in the output console. We're now going to show you another way.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - the escape and newline characters
We've modified the code again. Look at it carefully.

There are two very subtle changes - we've inserted a strange pair of characters inside the rhyme. They look like this: `\n`.


Interestingly, while `you can see two characters, Python sees one`.

The backslash (\) has a very special meaning when used inside strings - this is called `the escape character`.

The word escape should be understood specifically - it means that the series of characters in the string escapes for the moment (a very short moment) to introduce a special inclusion.

In other words, the backslash doesn't mean anything in itself, but is only a kind of announcement, that the next character after the backslash has a different meaning too.

The letter `n` placed after the backslash comes from the word newline.

Both the backslash and the n form a special symbol named `a newline character`, which urges the console to start a `new output line`.
Run the code. Your console should now look like this:
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
```scripts
print("The itsy bitsy spider\nclimbed up the waterspout.")
print()
print("Down came the rain\nand washed the spider out.")
```
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
output
```
The itsy bitsy spider
climbed up the waterspout.

Down came the rain
and washed the spider out.
output
```
As you can see, two newlines appear in the nursery rhyme, in the places where the `\n` have been used.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - the escape and newline characters
This convention has two important consequences:

1. If you want to put just one backslash inside a string, don't forget its escaping nature - you have to double it, e.g., such an invocation will cause an error:
```scripts
print("\")
```

while this one won't:
```scripts
print("\\")
```

2. Not all escape pairs (the backslash coupled with another character) mean something.

Experiment with your code in the editor, run it, and see what happens.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - using multiple arguments
So far we have tested the `print()` function behavior with no arguments, and with one argument. It's also worth trying to feed the print() function with more than one argument.

Look at the editor window. This is what we're going to test now:
```scripts
print("The itsy bitsy spider" , "climbed up" , "the waterspout.")
```

There is one `print()` function invocation, but it contains `three arguments`. All of them are strings.

The arguments are `separated by commas`. We've surrounded them with spaces to make them more visible, but it's not really necessary, and we won't be doing it anymore.

In this case, the commas separating the arguments play a completely different role than the comma inside the string. The former is a part of Python's syntax, the latter is intended to be shown in the console.

If you look at the code again, you'll see that there are no spaces inside the strings.

Run the code and see what happens.

The console should now be showing the following text:
```
The itsy bitsy spider climbed up the waterspout.
output
```
The spaces, removed from the strings, have appeared again. Can you explain why?

Two conclusions emerge from this example:
  - a print() function invoked with more than one argument outputs them all on one line;
  - the print() function puts a space between the outputted arguments on its own initiative.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - the positional way of passing the arguments
Now that you know a bit about `print()` function customs, we're going to show you how to change them.

You should be able to predict the output without running the code in the editor.

The way in which we are passing the arguments into the `print()` function is the most common in Python, and is called `the positional way` (this name comes from the fact that the meaning of the argument is dictated by its position, e.g., the second argument will be outputted after the first, not the other way round).

Run the code and check if the output matches your predictions.
```
print("My name is", "Python.")
print("Monty Python.")
```

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - the keyword arguments
Python offers another mechanism for the passing of arguments, which can be helpful when you want to convince the `print()` function to change its behavior a bit.

We aren't going to explain it in depth right now. We plan to do this when we talk about functions. For now, we simply want to show you how it works. Feel free to use it in your own programs.

The mechanism is called `keyword arguments`. The name stems from the fact that the meaning of these arguments is taken not from its location (position) but from the special word (keyword) used to identify them.

The `print()` function has two keyword arguments that you can use for your purposes. The first of them is named `end`.

In the editor window you can see a very simple example of using a keyword argument.

In order to use it, it is necessary to know some rules:

  - a keyword argument consists of three elements: a `keyword` identifying the argument (`end` here); an `equal sign (=)`; and a `value` assigned to that argument;
  - any keyword arguments have to be put `after the last positional argument` (this is very important)

In our example, we have made use of the `end` keyword argument, and set it to a string containing one space.

Run the code to see how it works.

The console should now be showing the following text:
```scripts
print("My name is", "Python.", end=" ")
print("Monty Python.")
```
output
```
My name is Python. Monty Python.
```
As you can see, the `end` keyword argument determines the characters the print() function sends to the output once it reaches the end of its positional arguments.

The default behavior reflects the situation where the end keyword argument is `implicitly` used in the following way: `end="\n"`.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - the keyword arguments
And now it's time to try something more difficult.

If you look carefully, you'll see that we've used the `end` argument, but the string assigned to it is empty (it contains no characters at all).

What will happen now? Run the program in the editor to find out.

As the `end` argument has been set to nothing, the `print()` function outputs nothing too, once its positional arguments have been exhausted.

The console should now be showing the following text:
```
print("My name is ", end="")
print("Monty Python.")
```
output
```
My name is Monty Python.
```
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Note: `no newlines have been sent to the output.`
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
The string assigned to the `end` keyword argument can be of any length. Experiment with it if you want.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - the keyword arguments
We've said previously that the `print()` function separates its outputted arguments with spaces. This behavior can be changed, too.

The `keyword argument` that can do this is named `sep` (like separator).

Look at the code in the editor, and run it.

The `sep` argument delivers the following results:
```
print("My", "name", "is", "Monty", "Python.", sep="-")
```
output
```
My-name-is-Monty-Python.
```

The `print()` function now uses a dash, instead of a space, to separate the outputted arguments.

Note: the `sep` argument's value may be an empty string, too. Try it for yourself.

====================================================================================================
# The print() function - the keyword arguments
Both keyword arguments may be `mixed in one invocation`, just like here in the editor window.

The example doesn't make much sense, but it visibly presents the interactions between `end` and `sep`.

Can you predict the output?

Run the code and see if it matches your predictions.
```py
print("My", "name", "is", sep="_", end="*")
print("Monty", "Python.", sep="*", end="*\n")
```
output
```
My_name_is*Monty*Python.*
```
Now that you understand the `print()` function, you're ready to consider how to store and process data in Python.

Without `print()`, you wouldn't be able to see any results.

