# Key takeaways
1. `Literals` are notations for representing some fixed values in code. Python has various types of literals - for example, a literal can be a number (numeric literals, e.g., `123`), or a string (string literals, e.g., "I am a literal.").

2. The `binary system` is a system of numbers that employs 2 as the base. Therefore, a binary number is made up of 0s and 1s only, e.g., `1010` is 10 in decimal.

Octal and hexadecimal numeration systems, similarly, employ 8 and 16 as their bases respectively. The hexadecimal system uses the decimal numbers and six extra letters.

3. `Integers` (or simply `ints`) are one of the numerical types supported by Python. They are numbers written without a fractional component, e.g., `256`, or `-1` (negative integers).

4. `Floating-point` numbers (or simply `floats`) are another one of the numerical types supported by Python. They are numbers that contain (or are able to contain) a fractional component, e.g., `1.27`.

5. To encode an apostrophe or a quote inside a string you can either use the escape character, e.g., `'I\'m happy.'`, or open and close the string using an opposite set of symbols to the ones you wish to encode, e.g., `"I'm happy."` to encode an apostrophe, and `'He said "Python", not "typhoon"'` to encode a (double) quote.

6. `Boolean values` are the two constant objects `True` and `False` used to represent truth values (in numeric contexts `1` is `True`, while `0` is `False`.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
EXTRA

There is one more, special literal that is used in Python: the `None` literal. This literal is a so-called `NoneType` object, and it is used to represent `the absence of a value`. We'll tell you more about it soon.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

## Exercise 1
What types of literals are the following two examples? `"Hello ", "007"`
`They're both strings/string literals.`

## Exercise 2
What types of literals are the following four examples? `"1.5", 2.0, 528, False`
`The first is a string, the second is a numerical literal (a float), the third is a numerical literal (an integer), and the fourth is a boolean literal.`

## Exercise 3
What is the decimal value of the following binary number? `1011`
`It's 11, because (2**0) + (2**1) + (2**3) = 11`
